<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../style.css"/>
        <title>no more Miss America: Atlantic City is a town with class, they raid your morals and
            judge your ass </title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <nav>
            <ul>
                <li><a href="index.html">Main</a></li>
                <li><a href="methodology.html">Methodology</a></li>
                <li><a href="texts.html">Texts</a></li>
                <li><a href="analysis.html">Analysis</a></li>
            </ul>
        </nav>
        <h1>no more Miss America: Atlantic City is a town with class, they raid your morals and
            judge your ass </h1>
        
        <p>"Women of the World Unite-We Have Nothing to Lose But Our Men!" Off
            hand, I'd say that's quite a lot. Not so, however, according to New York Women's
            Liberation, who last Saturday, September 7 staged a demonstration on Atlantic City's
            boardwalk to protest the crowning of Miss America 1968, "symbol of the American woman's built-in
            obsolescence."</p>
        
        <p>The demonstration began at 3:00 in the afternoon in front of the
            Atlantic City Convention Hall. Women's Liberation, its participants numbering around
            200, began with a march, interrupted almost immediately by police vigilance, hecklers and Pageant
            organizers. Placards read "Miss America is alive and angry in Harlem," "Welcome to
            the
            Miss America Cattle Auction,"
            and "Everyone is beautiful," while demonstrators chanted, "Atlantic City is a town with
            class, they raise your morals and judge your ass." </p>
        
        <p>Hecklers on the other side of the police barricades retorted with
            "Do you play around with monkeys or men?" and "You wouldn't even make it in a woman's
            world." Although the majority of the spectators were hostile, one middle-aged man
            commented, "I think there's some truth, some factuality in their arguments." Jeers
            ranged from "lesbians&gt;" and "screwy frustrated
            women" to "If they were to get married, they
            wouldn't have time for all this,"  (many of Women's Liberation are
            married) and "If they want freedom, let them join the Service." A little group set
            up
            its own counter- demonstration, with posters of "Jealousy will get you nowhere." Terry
            Neeuwsen, Miss Green Bay 1967 and runner-up number two in the 1967 Pageant, emerged
            from
            the crowd wearing a sign, "There's only one thing wrong with Miss America-she's
            beautiful." </p>
        Fuzzy Technicality
        
        <p>The action really began later in the afternoon when one of Women's
            Liberation lead a little wooly lamb onto the boardwalk, with a blue-and-yellow Miss
            America banner draped on its back. The lamb trotted along amicably, but even the big
            bow
            judiciously strapped to its tail couldn't hide the fact that Women's Liberation Miss
            America 1968 was a male, and on discovery of this fact the crowd hooted and roared.
            Robin Morgan, organizer of the demonstration, attired the lamb in a black padded bra
            and
            hair-switch.</p>
        
        <p>Then came a huge Freedom Trash Can, into which Women's Liberation
            dropped items of its purported enslavement-bras, stockings, girdles, hair-curlers,
            copies of Vogue, Cosmopolitan and Ladies' Home Journal. Even the lamb was divested
            of
            its garb and let loose to wander in its original state.</p>
        
        <p>Next came an eight-foot wooden puppet with movable joints who
            looked like the female version of-' Uncle Sam, and had chained to it several girls
            who
            were "auctioned off by Peggy Dobbins, dressed in a grey oversized man's coat, big
            rubbers, tie, trousers and a white slave trader's
            hat, to represent an "auctioneer
            slave-trader." She gave a dialogue on the rights of women in much the
            same manner as that of the original suffragettes, after whom Women's Liberation seems
            to
            model itself.</p>
        
        <p>The demonstration's ranks dwindled a little at suppertime when
            girls went to eat at a Black Community open-house
            arranged by Flo Kennedy.</p>
        
        <p>The Pageant itself began at 8:30 with contestants nervously
            strutting along the platform and a diligent contingent of policewomen, troopers and plainclothesmen
            following around the 16 or so members of the Women's Liberation who had tickets for
            the
            ceremony. Around 10:30 a very peculiar odor started to permeate the main room and
            corridors of the Convention Hall and obviously wafted its way to the noses of police
            who
            arrested Peggy Dobbins as she . came down the Pageant room steps spraying a Toni
            hair-spray bottle filled with butric acid. The Pageant continued with the contestants
            doing their routines, reminiscent of a Saturday afternoon talent show for 12- year-olds.
        </p>
        
        <p>Eighteen-year-old Judith Ann Ford, Miss Illinois, was crowned Miss
            America at 12:00 midnight. She hadn't uttered three words of her acceptance speech,
            when
            a burst of "Down with Miss America," "Freedom" and "Women's Liberation" echoed from
            the
            right wing of the Convention Hall balcony. A large white bedsheet with the words
            "Women's Liberation" had been hung over the balcony railing in full view. Police on
            the
            Convention floor brandishing billyclubs ran up the stairs to the balcony section and
            carried away the six girls who had lowered the banner. One girl who was slow in moving
            was carried off with a policeman's hand around her throat and another hand over her
            mouth.</p>
        
        <p>"They're expressing freedom, I guess," remarked Saundra Williams,
            19-year-old winner of the Miss Black America Beauty
            Pageant, the first of its kind, held the same day in Atlantic City on the
            boardwalk. "To each his own."</p>
        
        <p>The demonstration outside the Convention Hall, which was continuing
            with a candlelight vigil, was ordered to disperse and "escorted" down the boardwalk
            by
            Atlantic City police and jeering Pageant participants. The group, after some delay
            and
            much harassment, finally boarded a city bus and was taken to a terminal on the outskirts
            of town to await its own chartered bus. It was learned meanwhile that Peggy Dobbins
            had
            been charged with disorderly conduct on a $1,000 bail and the girls who had lowered
            the
            banner with $110 each.</p>
        
        <p>Officials of the group then went to the centra] police station
            where, through the arrangements of Flo Kennedy and a Philadelphia woman lawyer who
            had
            taken up the cause on the boardwalk, bail for Peggy was reduced to $110 and $50 each
            for
            the six other girls.</p>
        
        <p>Commented Paul Krassner of the Realist who despite his sex was very
            helpful in retrieving lost articles for the girls and who seemed very much the topic
            of
            conversation for the new suffragettes on the way home, ""Well, it won't help the Democratic
            convention.""</p>
        
    </body>
</html>