<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../style.css"/>
      <title>The Furies: Lesbian/Feminist Monthly (v. 1)</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <nav>
         <ul>
            <li><a href="../index.html">Main</a></li>
            <li><a href="../methodology.html">Methodology</a></li>
            <li><a href="../texts.html">Texts</a></li>
            <li><a href="../analysis.html">Analysis</a></li>
         </ul>
      </nav>
      <div class="checkboxList">
         <h3>Power Systems</h3><label class="container">Patriarchy<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="patriarchy"/></label><label class="container">Religion<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="religion"/></label><label class="container">Class<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="class"/></label><label class="container">Race<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="race"/></label><label class="container">Political<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="political"/></label><label class="container">Social<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="social"/></label><label class="container">Matriarchy<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="matriarchy"/></label><h3>Religion</h3><label class="container">Non-Western<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="non_western"/></label><label class="container">Islam<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="islam"/></label><label class="container">Protestantism<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="protestantism"/></label><label class="container">Catholicism<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="catholicism"/></label><label class="container">Judaism<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="judaism"/></label><label class="container">Indigenous<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="indigenous"/></label><label class="container">Christianity<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="christianity"/></label><label class="container">Greek Mythology<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="greekmyth"/></label><label class="container">Quaker<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="quaker"/></label><label class="container">Anglican<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="anglican"/></label><h3>Identity</h3><label class="container">Race<input type="checkbox" data-category="identity" data-subcategory="race"/></label><label class="container">Sexuality<input type="checkbox" data-category="identity" data-subcategory="sexuality"/></label><label class="container">Gender<input type="checkbox" data-category="identity" data-subcategory="gender"/></label><label class="container">Nationality<input type="checkbox" data-category="identity" data-subcategory="nationality"/></label><h3>Feminist Theory</h3><label class="container">Marxist<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="marxist"/></label><label class="container">Radfem<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="rad_fem"/></label><label class="container">Terf<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="terf"/></label><label class="container">Liberal<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="liberal"/></label><label class="container">Praxis<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="praxis"/></label><label class="container">Antifeminist<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="antifeminist"/></label><label class="container">Political Lesbian<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="political_lesbian"/></label><label class="container">Abolitionist<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="abolitionist"/></label><label class="container">Enlightenment Individualism<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="enlightenment_individualism"/></label><h3>Social Theory</h3><label class="container">Freud<input type="checkbox" data-category="social" data-subcategory="freud"/></label><label class="container">Rights of Man<input type="checkbox" data-category="social" data-subcategory="rights_of_man"/></label><label class="container">Enlightenment Individualism<input type="checkbox" data-category="social" data-subcategory="enlightenment"/></label><label class="container">Natural Rights<input type="checkbox" data-category="social" data-subcategory="natural_rights"/></label></div><script>
                    // Function to get all checked subcategories for a given category
                    function getCheckedSubcategories(category) {
                    const checkboxes = document.querySelectorAll(`input[data-category="${category}"]:checked`);
                    return Array.from(checkboxes).map(cb =&gt; cb.dataset.subcategory);
                    }
                    
                    // Function to check if any checkbox in a category is checked
                    function isCategoryActive(category) {
                    const checkboxes = document.querySelectorAll(`input[data-category="${category}"]`);
                    return Array.from(checkboxes).some(cb =&gt; cb.checked);
                    }
                    
                    // Function to update tooltip visibility
                    function updateTooltips() {
                    // Define mapping of categories to tooltip classes and their prefixes
                    const categories = {
                    'fem': { class: 'fem-tooltip', prefix: 'f_' },
                    'power': { class: 'power-tooltip', prefix: 'p_' },
                    'social': { class: 'social-tooltip', prefix: 's_' },
                    'religion': { class: 'religion-tooltip', prefix: 'r_' },
                    'identity': { class: 'identity-tooltip', prefix: '' },
                    'class': { class: 'class-tooltip', prefix: '' }
                    };
                    
                    // For each category, show/hide corresponding tooltips
                    Object.keys(categories).forEach(category =&gt; {
                    const tooltipClass = categories[category].class;
                    const prefix = categories[category].prefix;
                    const tooltips = document.querySelectorAll(`.${tooltipClass}`);
                    const checkedSubcategories = getCheckedSubcategories(category);
                    
                    tooltips.forEach(tooltip =&gt; {
                    // If no checkboxes in this category are checked, hide the tooltip
                    if (checkedSubcategories.length === 0) {
                    tooltip.classList.add('tooltip-hidden');
                    } else {
                    // Check if tooltip has any of the checked subcategories
                    const tooltipSubcategories = tooltip.dataset.subcategories 
                    ? tooltip.dataset.subcategories.split(',') 
                    : [];
                    
                    // Show tooltip if it has any of the checked subcategories
                    const hasMatch = checkedSubcategories.some(subcategory =&gt; 
                    tooltipSubcategories.includes(prefix + subcategory)
                    );
                    
                    if (hasMatch) {
                    tooltip.classList.remove('tooltip-hidden');
                    } else {
                    tooltip.classList.add('tooltip-hidden');
                    }
                    }
                    });
                    });
                    }
                    
                    // Initialize when page loads
                    document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
                    // Add event listeners to all checkboxes
                    const allCheckboxes = document.querySelectorAll('input[type="checkbox"][data-category]');
                    allCheckboxes.forEach(checkbox =&gt; {
                    checkbox.addEventListener('change', updateTooltips);
                    });
                    
                    // Hide all tooltips initially
                    updateTooltips();
                    });
                    </script><h1>The Furies: Lesbian/Feminist Monthly (v. 1)</h1>
      
      <p>
         <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_greekmyth">The story of the Furies is the story of strong,
            powerful  and the primacy of mother right. <span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">the furies</span></span>
      </p>
      
      <p>
         <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_greekmyth">Their most famous exploit (famous because in it they
            lost much of their power) involved Orestes in the last episode connected with the
            cycle of the Trojan War. Orestes, acting on the orders of the Sun God Apollo, killed
            his mother Clytemnestra, because she had killed his father. Clytemnestra had killed
            the father because he had sacrificed their daughter Iphigenia, in order to get
            favorable winds so his fleet could sail to Troy. The Furies tormented Orestes: they
            literally drove him crazy, putting him under a spell where for days he could not eat
            or wash his bloodstained hands. He bit off his finger to try to appease them, but
            to
            no avail. Finally, in desperation, Orestes went before the court of Athena to plead
            his case.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">the furies</span></span>
      </p>
      
      <p>
         The point at issue was whether matricide was
         justifiable to avenge your father's murder, or in other words, whether <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="gender">men<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">man</span></span> or <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="gender">women<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">woman</span></span> were to
         dominate. <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_greekmyth">Apollo defended Orestes and totally denied the importance of motherhood,
            <span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">the furies</span></span><span class="tooltip fem-tooltip" data-subcategories="f_antifeminist">claiming that women were no more than passive sperm receptacles for men, and that
               the father was the only parent worthy
               of the name.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">antifeminist</span></span><span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_greekmyth"> One might have thought that Athena, Goddess of Wisdom,
                  would have condemned Orestes, but Athena was the creation of the male God, Zeus, sprung
                  full-grown from his head, the
                  first token woman. Athena decided for Orestes.
                  Some mythologists say that Zeus, Athena, and Apollo had conspired from the
                  beginning, ordering Orestes to kill his mother in order to put an end, once and for
                  all, to the religious belief that motherhood was more divine than fatherhood. In any
                  case, that was the result.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">the furies</span></span>
      </p>
      
      <p>
         <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_greekmyth">The Furies were, of course, furious, and threatened
            to lay waste the city of Athens. But Athena had a direct line to Zeus, King of the
            Gods; <span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">the furies</span></span><span class="tooltip fem-tooltip" data-subcategories="f_antifeminist">she told the Furies to accept the new
               male supremacist order or lose everything.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">antifeminist</span></span><span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_greekmyth"> Some of the Furies and
                  their followers relented, the fest pursued Orestes until his death. <span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">the furies</span></span>
      </p>
      
      <p> We call our paper The FURIES because we are also angry. We are
         angry because we are oppressed by male supremacy. <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_patriarchy">We have been fucked over all our lives by a system which
            is based on the domination of men over women, which defines male as good and female
            as only
            as good as the man you are with.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">patriarchy</span></span>
         It is a system in which <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="sexuality">heterosexuality<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">straight</span></span> is rigidly
         enforced and <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="sexuality">Lesbianism<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">lesbian</span></span> rigidly suppressed. It is a system which has
         further divided us by <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_class">class<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">class</span></span>, <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_race">race<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">race</span></span>, and nationality. </p>
      
      <p> We are working to change this system which has kept us separate
         and powerless for so long. We are a collective of twelve <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="sexuality">Lesbians<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">lesbian</span></span> living and working in Washington, D.C. We are rural and urban;
         from the Southwest, Midwest, South and Northeast. Our ages range from 18 to 28. We
         are
         high school dropouts and Ph.D. candidates. We are <span class="tooltip class-tooltip" data-subcategories="lower">lower
            class,<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">lower</span></span>
         <span class="tooltip class-tooltip" data-subcategories="middle">middle<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">middle</span></span> and <span class="tooltip class-tooltip" data-subcategories="middle">upper-middle
            class.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">upper middle</span></span>
         <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="race">We are white.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">white</span></span> Some of us have been <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="sexuality">Lesbians<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">lesbian</span></span> for twelve years, others for ten months. We
         are committed to ending all oppressions by attacking their roots--male supremacy.
      </p>
      
      
      <p> We believe The FURIES will make important contributions to the
         growing movement to destroy sexism. As a collective, in addition to outside projects,
         we
         are spending much time building an ideology which is the basis for action. For too
         long,
         <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="gender">women<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">woman</span></span> in the Movement have fallen prey to the
         very <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="gender">male<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">man</span></span> propaganda they seek to refute. They have
         rejected thought, building an ideology, and all intellectual activity as the realm
         of
         <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="gender">men<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">man</span></span>, and tried to build a politics based only on
         feelings--the area traditionally left to <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="gender">women<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">woman</span></span>. The
         philosophy has been, "if it feels good, it's O.K. If not, forget it." But that is
         like
         saying that strength. which is a <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="gender">"male"<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">man</span></span>
         characteristic, should-be left to <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="gender">men<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">man</span></span>, and <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="gender">women<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">woman</span></span> should embrace weakness. Most <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="sexuality">straight<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">straight</span></span>
         <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="gender">women<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">woman</span></span>, to say nothing of <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="gender">men<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">man</span></span>, feel afraid or contemptuous of <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="sexuality">Lesbians<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">lesbian</span></span>. That fear and contempt is similar to the feelings <span class="tooltip class-tooltip" data-subcategories="middle">middle class<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">middle</span></span>
         <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="race">whites<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">white</span></span> have towards <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="race">Blacks<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">black</span></span> or <span class="tooltip class-tooltip" data-subcategories="lower">lower class people.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">lower</span></span> These
         feelings are the result of our socialization and are hardly worth glorifying. This
         is
         not to say that feelings are irrelevant, only that they are derived from our experience
         which is limited by our class, race, etc. Furthermore, feelings are too often used
         to
         excuse inaction and inability to change. </p>
      
      <p> A political movement cannot advance without systematic thought and
         practical organization. The haphazard, non-strategic, zig-zag tactics of the <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="sexuality">straight<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">straight</span></span>
         <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="gender">women's<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">woman</span></span> movement, the male left, and many other so-called revolutionary groups have led
         only to frustration and dissolution. We do not want to make those same mistakes; our
         ideology forms the basis for developing long-range strategies and short-term tactics,
         projects, and actions. </p>
      
      <p> The base of our ideological thought is: Sexism is the root of all
         other oppressions, and <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="sexuality">Lesbian<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">lesbian</span></span> and <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="gender">woman<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">woman</span></span> oppression will not end by smashing capitalism,
         <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_race">racism<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">racism</span></span>, and imperialism.<span class="tooltip fem-tooltip" data-subcategories="f_politicallesbian">Lesbianism is not a matter of sexual
            preference, but rather one of political choice which every woman must make if she
            is
            to become woman-identified and thereby end male supremacy.</span>
         <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="sexuality">Lesbians,<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">lesbian</span></span> as outcasts from every culture but
         their own have the most to gain by ending <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_race">race<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">race</span></span>, <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_class">class<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">class</span></span>, and national supremacy within
         their own ranks. <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip" data-subcategories="f_politicallesbian">Lesbians must
            get out of the straight women's movement and form their own movement in order to be
            taken seriously, to stop straight women from oppressing us, and to force straight
            women to deal with their own Lesbianism.</span>
         <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip" data-subcategories="f_politicallesbian">Lesbians cannot develop a common
            politics with women who do not accept Lesbianism as a political issue.</span>
      </p>
      
      <p> In this (see page 8) and following issues of The FURIES we will
         share our thoughts with you. We welcome your comments, letters, articles, fiction,
         poetry, news, graphics, and support. We want to build a movement in this country and
         in
         the world which can effectively stop the violent, sick, oppressive acts of <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="gender">male<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">man</span></span>
         supremacy. We want to build a movement which makes all people free. </p>
      
      <p> For the Chinese <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="gender">women<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">woman</span></span> whose feet were bound and crippled; for the.
         Ibibos of Africa whose clitori were mutilated; for every <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="gender">woman<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">woman</span></span> who has ever been raped,
         physically, <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_class">economically<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">economic</span></span>, psychologically, we take the name of <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_greekmyth">the FURIES, Goddesses of
            Vengeance and protectors of women.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">greek myth</span></span> Ginny Berson. </p>
   </body>
</html>