<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../style.css"/>
        <title>DIY SEX: EARLY TO BED</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <nav>
            <ul>
                <li><a href="../index.html">Main</a></li>
                <li><a href="../methodology.html">Methodology</a></li>
                <li><a href="../texts.html">Texts</a></li>
                <li><a href="../analysis.html">Analysis</a></li>
            </ul>
        </nav>
        <nav class="link-column">
            <div class="textNav">
                <ul>
                    <li><a href="../wave4.html">Overview</a></li>
                    <li><a href="DragBeatty.xhtml"></a>Drag</li>
                    <li><a href="PunkPlanet29.xhtml"></a>Excerpt from Punk Planet 29</li>
                    <li><a href="PunkPlanet52.xhtml"></a>Excerpt from Punk Planet 52</li>
                    <li><a href="PunkPlanet62.xhtml"></a>Excerpt from Punk Planet 62</li>
                </ul> 
            </div>
        </nav>
        <h1>DIY SEX: EARLY TO BED</h1>
        
        <p>Ah, blue balls. As a girl, I grew up thinking that <span class="tooltip">blue balls<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">blue balls</span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span></span> were <span class="tooltip">nothing more than a sad excuse for guys to pressure girls into having sex<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">nothing more than a sad excuse for guys to pressure girls into having sex</span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span></span>— ’’Gome on baby, you got me all turned on, now you have to fuck me or I’ll get blue
            balls. ” I figured it was just some made-up term for sexual frustration. Then I became
            a dyke and I never thought about them again until I got this letter. So I did a little
            research and, with some help from the good people of scarleteen.com, I now know that
            it is indeed a real condition, albeit not a very serious one.</p>
        
        
        <p>The technical term for blue balls is vasocongestion and it works like this: When a
            man becomes aroused, the arteries carrying blood to the genital area enlarge, while
            the veins carrying blood away from the genital area become more constricted than they
            are when you aren’t turned on. This causes an increase in the amount of blood trapped
            in the penis and testicles, which in turn helps you to get your nice, stiff erection
            and swollen balls. When you have an orgasm, the arteries and veins return to their
            normal size. If you don’t have an orgasm, that blood can get trapped in there and
            can lead to an achy, sometimes painful feeling in the testicles. The term "blue balls”
            comes from the bluish tint that nuts can take on when they are engorged. This pain,
            however, can usually be easily eradicated by masturbating (when’s the last time someone
            prescribed that for pain?) or, some say, by taking a cold shower or exercising. Obviously,
            this condition is never an excuse to try and talk anyone into touchingyour dick if
            they don 't want to. You are at absolutely no risk for any damage to your cock and,
            from what I gather, most guys can easily make themselves come in a matter of minutes,
            so you shouldn’t have to suffer for too long.</p>
        
        
        <p>That said, pain in your cock, balls, pussy, or abdomen can be a sign of something
            more serious, so if you have these kinds of symptoms at times other than when you
            have been turned on and not had an orgasm, go see your doctor just to be sure.</p>
        
        
        <p>FYI, women also experience increased blood flow to their genitals when they are turned
            on and can experience a similar sensation when they don’t have an orgasm. Let’s call
            that purple pussy!</p>
    </body>
</html>