<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../style.css"/>
      <title>Excerpt from Punk Planet 29</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <nav>
         <ul>
            <li><a href="../index.html">Main</a></li>
            <li><a href="../methodology.html">Methodology</a></li>
            <li><a href="../texts.html">Texts</a></li>
            <li><a href="../analysis.html">Analysis</a></li>
         </ul>
      </nav>
      <div class="textNav">
         <ul>
            <li><a href="wave4.html">Overview</a></li>
            <li><a href="PunkPlanet29.xhtml">Excerpt from Punk Planet 29</a></li>
            <li><a href="PunkPlanet52.xhtml">Excerpt from Punk Planet 52</a></li>
            <li><a href="PunkPlanet62.xhtml">Excerpt from Punk Planet 62</a></li>
         </ul> 
      </div>
      <div class="checkboxList">
         <h3>Power Systems</h3><label class="container">Patriarchy<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="patriarchy"/></label><label class="container">Religion<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="religion"/></label><label class="container">Class<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="class"/></label><label class="container">Race<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="race"/></label><label class="container">Political<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="political"/></label><label class="container">Social<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="social"/></label><label class="container">Matriarchy<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="matriarchy"/></label><h3>Religion</h3><label class="container">Non-Western<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="non_western"/></label><label class="container">Islam<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="islam"/></label><label class="container">Protestantism<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="protestantism"/></label><label class="container">Catholicism<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="catholicism"/></label><label class="container">Judaism<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="judaism"/></label><label class="container">Indigenous<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="indigenous"/></label><label class="container">Christianity<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="christianity"/></label><label class="container">Greek Mythology<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="greekmyth"/></label><label class="container">Quaker<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="quaker"/></label><label class="container">Anglican<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="anglican"/></label><h3>Identity</h3><label class="container">Race<input type="checkbox" data-category="identity" data-subcategory="race"/></label><label class="container">Sexuality<input type="checkbox" data-category="identity" data-subcategory="sexuality"/></label><label class="container">Gender<input type="checkbox" data-category="identity" data-subcategory="gender"/></label><label class="container">Nationality<input type="checkbox" data-category="identity" data-subcategory="nationality"/></label><h3>Feminist Theory</h3><label class="container">Marxist<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="marxist"/></label><label class="container">Radfem<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="rad_fem"/></label><label class="container">Terf<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="terf"/></label><label class="container">Liberal<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="liberal"/></label><label class="container">Praxis<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="praxis"/></label><label class="container">Antifeminist<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="antifeminist"/></label><label class="container">Political Lesbian<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="political_lesbian"/></label><label class="container">Abolitionist<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="abolitionist"/></label><label class="container">Enlightenment Individualism<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="enlightenment_individualism"/></label><h3>Social Theory</h3><label class="container">Freud<input type="checkbox" data-category="social" data-subcategory="freud"/></label><label class="container">Rights of Man<input type="checkbox" data-category="social" data-subcategory="rights_of_man"/></label><label class="container">Enlightenment Individualism<input type="checkbox" data-category="social" data-subcategory="enlightenment"/></label><label class="container">Natural Rights<input type="checkbox" data-category="social" data-subcategory="natural_rights"/></label></div><script>
                    // Function to get all checked subcategories for a given category
                    function getCheckedSubcategories(category) {
                    const checkboxes = document.querySelectorAll(`input[data-category="${category}"]:checked`);
                    return Array.from(checkboxes).map(cb =&gt; cb.dataset.subcategory);
                    }
                    
                    // Function to check if any checkbox in a category is checked
                    function isCategoryActive(category) {
                    const checkboxes = document.querySelectorAll(`input[data-category="${category}"]`);
                    return Array.from(checkboxes).some(cb =&gt; cb.checked);
                    }
                    
                    // Function to update tooltip visibility
                    function updateTooltips() {
                    // Define mapping of categories to tooltip classes and their prefixes
                    const categories = {
                    'fem': { class: 'fem-tooltip', prefix: 'f_' },
                    'power': { class: 'power-tooltip', prefix: 'p_' },
                    'social': { class: 'social-tooltip', prefix: 's_' },
                    'religion': { class: 'religion-tooltip', prefix: 'r_' },
                    'identity': { class: 'identity-tooltip', prefix: '' },
                    'class': { class: 'class-tooltip', prefix: '' }
                    };
                    
                    // For each category, show/hide corresponding tooltips
                    Object.keys(categories).forEach(category =&gt; {
                    const tooltipClass = categories[category].class;
                    const prefix = categories[category].prefix;
                    const tooltips = document.querySelectorAll(`.${tooltipClass}`);
                    const checkedSubcategories = getCheckedSubcategories(category);
                    
                    tooltips.forEach(tooltip =&gt; {
                    // If no checkboxes in this category are checked, hide the tooltip
                    if (checkedSubcategories.length === 0) {
                    tooltip.classList.add('tooltip-hidden');
                    } else {
                    // Check if tooltip has any of the checked subcategories
                    const tooltipSubcategories = tooltip.dataset.subcategories 
                    ? tooltip.dataset.subcategories.split(',') 
                    : [];
                    
                    // Show tooltip if it has any of the checked subcategories
                    const hasMatch = checkedSubcategories.some(subcategory =&gt; 
                    tooltipSubcategories.includes(prefix + subcategory)
                    );
                    
                    if (hasMatch) {
                    tooltip.classList.remove('tooltip-hidden');
                    } else {
                    tooltip.classList.add('tooltip-hidden');
                    }
                    }
                    });
                    });
                    }
                    
                    // Initialize when page loads
                    document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
                    // Add event listeners to all checkboxes
                    const allCheckboxes = document.querySelectorAll('input[type="checkbox"][data-category]');
                    allCheckboxes.forEach(checkbox =&gt; {
                    checkbox.addEventListener('change', updateTooltips);
                    });
                    
                    // Hide all tooltips initially
                    updateTooltips();
                    });
                    </script><h1>Excerpt from Punk Planet 29</h1>
      
      <p>Carrie: <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip" data-subcategories="f_terf"><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">It’s like they think they’re paying you a compliment by taking you out of the 'girl
               group ghetto' and saying that you’ve tran¬ scended gender.</span></span>
         It’s like they think they’re paying you a compliment by taking you out of the "girl
         group ghetto” and 
         saying that you’ve tran¬ scended gender. But that’s never been our goal. I mean, <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip" data-subcategories="f_terf">how could we possibly 
            tran¬ scend something that’s so experiential and part of who we are?<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">how could we possibly                  tran¬ scend something that’s so experiential
               and part of who we are?</span></span> And why would we ever want to be "<span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="gender">Men In Rock<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">Men in Rock</span></span>?” 
         <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_patriarchy"> It’s not a history that we’re a part of nor would we 
            like to emulate it.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">It’s not a history that we’re a part of nor would we like to emulate it.</span></span></p>
      
      
      <p>Janet: Maybe they’re trying to say that we’ve transcended <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="gender"><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">the cliche of the girl keyboard player                  in a mini skirt.</span></span>the cliche of the girl keyboard player in a mini skirt.</p>
      
      
      <p>Corin: But that would be a more intelligent thing to say and they’re not saying that.
         If they had said exactly that, 
         it would be dif¬ ferent. We’ve noticed a lot of really lousy, lazy journalists. They
         read the press kit and they write exactly what 
         someone else wrote, just in different words—sometimes in the same words [laughs].
         There’s no real con¬ text or basis for many of these 
         people to write about us. They have very little to refer to when they describe <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="gender">women who play music<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">women who play music</span></span>. 
         You almost have to come up with a whole new vocabulary, really. Rock journalism has
         existed for as long as <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_social">rock music<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">rock music</span></span>, but when they 
         try to describe some¬ thing that doesn’t fit easily into that same category with the
         same language, it’s impossible. </p>
      
      
      <p>In a way, that’s a fault of rock journalism, which I’ve always found to be an especially
         illegitimate form of 
         journalism. Having made attempts at going down that road before, I’ve gotten burned
         every time because, like you said, the language and 
         framework that it works under is unbeliev¬ ably constricting.</p>
      
      
      <p>Janet: Complexity is just not acceptable to rock journalism. Something has to be one
         way or the other. It can’t 
         have shades of this or shades of that. Everything has to be put in really plain and
         simple terms. </p>
      
      
      <p>Corin: It’s just such a cop out. It’s the same thing with <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_social">mainstream music<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">mainstream music</span></span>. They want it to be really simple and 
         easy to understand. </p>
      
      
      <p>If it is music that is difficult or just com¬ plex or weird in some way, so many times
         it gets overlooked. </p>
      
      
      <p>Which is why Sleater-Kinney is such an anom¬ aly. Musically, you’re very complex.
         On its sur¬ face it seems simple, 
         but once you break it down it’s actually really intricate. You have these competing
         guitar lines and competing vocal lines. It’s such an 
         anomaly that you would have found this relative success in the <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_social">main¬ stream<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">main¬ stream</span></span>and that you’d be playing venues this size and getting the 
         amount of press that you have. What do you attribute that to? </p>
      
      
      <p>Janet: I think the people that do love it, love it st&gt; much. Writers see the reaction
         of our fans at shows and say, 
         "What’s happening?” They try to explain it, and they do so poorly, but enough people
         are attracted by it that 
         more and more people come.</p>
      
      
   </body>
</html>