<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../style.css"/>
      <title>Woman Hating</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <nav>
         <ul>
            <li><a href="../index.html">Main</a></li>
            <li><a href="../methodology.html">Methodology</a></li>
            <li><a href="../texts.html">Texts</a></li>
            <li><a href="../analysis.html">Analysis</a></li>
         </ul>
      </nav>
      <div class="checkboxList">
         <h3>Power Systems</h3><label class="container">Patriarchy<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="patriarchy"/></label><label class="container">Religion<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="religion"/></label><label class="container">Class<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="class"/></label><label class="container">Race<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="race"/></label><label class="container">Political<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="political"/></label><label class="container">Social<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="social"/></label><label class="container">Matriarchy<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="matriarchy"/></label><h3>Religion</h3><label class="container">Non-Western<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="non_western"/></label><label class="container">Islam<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="islam"/></label><label class="container">Protestantism<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="protestantism"/></label><label class="container">Catholicism<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="catholicism"/></label><label class="container">Judaism<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="judaism"/></label><label class="container">Indigenous<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="indigenous"/></label><label class="container">Christianity<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="christianity"/></label><label class="container">Greek Mythology<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="greekmyth"/></label><label class="container">Quaker<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="quaker"/></label><label class="container">Anglican<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="anglican"/></label><h3>Identity</h3><label class="container">Race<input type="checkbox" data-category="identity" data-subcategory="race"/></label><label class="container">Sexuality<input type="checkbox" data-category="identity" data-subcategory="sexuality"/></label><label class="container">Gender<input type="checkbox" data-category="identity" data-subcategory="gender"/></label><label class="container">Nationality<input type="checkbox" data-category="identity" data-subcategory="nationality"/></label><h3>Feminist Theory</h3><label class="container">Marxist<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="marxist"/></label><label class="container">Radfem<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="rad_fem"/></label><label class="container">Terf<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="terf"/></label><label class="container">Liberal<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="liberal"/></label><label class="container">Praxis<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="praxis"/></label><label class="container">Antifeminist<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="antifeminist"/></label><label class="container">Political Lesbian<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="political_lesbian"/></label><label class="container">Abolitionist<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="abolitionist"/></label><label class="container">Enlightenment Individualism<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="enlightenment_individualism"/></label><h3>Social Theory</h3><label class="container">Freud<input type="checkbox" data-category="social" data-subcategory="freud"/></label><label class="container">Rights of Man<input type="checkbox" data-category="social" data-subcategory="rights_of_man"/></label><label class="container">Enlightenment Individualism<input type="checkbox" data-category="social" data-subcategory="enlightenment"/></label><label class="container">Natural Rights<input type="checkbox" data-category="social" data-subcategory="natural_rights"/></label></div><script>
                    // Function to get all checked subcategories for a given category
                    function getCheckedSubcategories(category) {
                    const checkboxes = document.querySelectorAll(`input[data-category="${category}"]:checked`);
                    return Array.from(checkboxes).map(cb =&gt; cb.dataset.subcategory);
                    }
                    
                    // Function to check if any checkbox in a category is checked
                    function isCategoryActive(category) {
                    const checkboxes = document.querySelectorAll(`input[data-category="${category}"]`);
                    return Array.from(checkboxes).some(cb =&gt; cb.checked);
                    }
                    
                    // Function to update tooltip visibility
                    function updateTooltips() {
                    // Define mapping of categories to tooltip classes and their prefixes
                    const categories = {
                    'fem': { class: 'fem-tooltip', prefix: 'f_' },
                    'power': { class: 'power-tooltip', prefix: 'p_' },
                    'social': { class: 'social-tooltip', prefix: 's_' },
                    'religion': { class: 'religion-tooltip', prefix: 'r_' },
                    'identity': { class: 'identity-tooltip', prefix: '' },
                    'class': { class: 'class-tooltip', prefix: '' }
                    };
                    
                    // For each category, show/hide corresponding tooltips
                    Object.keys(categories).forEach(category =&gt; {
                    const tooltipClass = categories[category].class;
                    const prefix = categories[category].prefix;
                    const tooltips = document.querySelectorAll(`.${tooltipClass}`);
                    const checkedSubcategories = getCheckedSubcategories(category);
                    
                    tooltips.forEach(tooltip =&gt; {
                    // If no checkboxes in this category are checked, hide the tooltip
                    if (checkedSubcategories.length === 0) {
                    tooltip.classList.add('tooltip-hidden');
                    } else {
                    // Check if tooltip has any of the checked subcategories
                    const tooltipSubcategories = tooltip.dataset.subcategories 
                    ? tooltip.dataset.subcategories.split(',') 
                    : [];
                    
                    // Show tooltip if it has any of the checked subcategories
                    const hasMatch = checkedSubcategories.some(subcategory =&gt; 
                    tooltipSubcategories.includes(prefix + subcategory)
                    );
                    
                    if (hasMatch) {
                    tooltip.classList.remove('tooltip-hidden');
                    } else {
                    tooltip.classList.add('tooltip-hidden');
                    }
                    }
                    });
                    });
                    }
                    
                    // Initialize when page loads
                    document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
                    // Add event listeners to all checkboxes
                    const allCheckboxes = document.querySelectorAll('input[type="checkbox"][data-category]');
                    allCheckboxes.forEach(checkbox =&gt; {
                    checkbox.addEventListener('change', updateTooltips);
                    });
                    
                    // Hide all tooltips initially
                    updateTooltips();
                    });
                </script><h1>Woman Hating</h1>
      
      <p>
         The Story of O, by Pauline Reage, incorporates, along with all literary pornography,
         principles 
         and characters already isolated in my discussion of children's fairy tales. The <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="gender">female<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">female</span></span> as a 
         figure of innocence and evil enters the adult world--the brutal world of genitalia.
         The <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="gender">female <span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">female</span></span>
         manifests in her adult form--cunt. She emerges defined by the hole between her legs.
         In 
         addition, Story of O is more than simple pornography. <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip" data-subcategories="f_antifeminist">It claims to define epistemologically 
            what a woman is, what she needs, her processes of thinking and feeling, her proper
            place.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">epistemological</span></span> It 
         links men and women in an erotic dance of some magnitude: the sado-masochistic 
         complexion of O is not trivial--<span class="tooltip fem-tooltip" data-subcategories="f_antifeminist">it is formulated as a cosmic principle which articulates, 
            absolutely, the feminine.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">natural basis</span></span>
         </p>
      
      <p>
         Also, O is particularly compelling for me because I once believed it to be what its
         defenders 
         claim--the mystical revelation of the true, eternal, and sacral destiny of <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="">women</span>. The book 
         was absorbed as a pulsating, erotic, <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_christianity">secular Christianity<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">compares to christianity</span></span> (the joy in pure suffering, woman as 
         Christ figure). I experienced O with the same infantile abandon as the NEWSWEEK reviewer
         
         who wrote: "What lifts this fascinating book above mere perversity is its movement
         toward 
         the transcendence of the self through a gift of the self . . . to give the body, to
         allow it to be 
         ravaged, exploited, and totally possessed can be an act of consequence, if it is done
         with 
         love for the sake of love." <sup style="font-size: 0.8em; vertical-align: super; color: #4b0082;">1</sup> Any clear-headed appraisal of O will show the situation, O's 
         condition, her behavior, and most importantly her attitude toward her oppressor as
         a logical 
         scenario incorporating <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_judaism">Judeo<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">Judeo-Christian</span></span>-<span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_christianity">Christian<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">Judeo-Christian</span></span> values of service and self-sacrifice and universal 
         notions of womanhood, <span class="tooltip class-tooltip" data-subcategories="social">a logical scenario demonstrating the psychology of submission and 
            self-hatred found in all oppressed peoples<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">all oppressed peoples</span></span>. O is a book of astounding political significance.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         This is, then, the story of O: O is taken by her lover Rene to Roissy and cloistered
         there; she 
         is fucked, sucked, raped, whipped, humiliated, and tortured on a regular and continuing
         
         basis--she is programmed to be an erotic slave, Rene's personal whore; after being
         properly 
         trained she is sent home with her lover; her lover gives her to Sir Stephen, his half-brother;
         
         she is fucked, sucked, raped, whipped, humiliated, and tortured on a regular and continuing
         
         basis; she is ordered to become the lover of Jacqueline and to recruit her for Roissy,
         which 
         she does; she is sent to Anne-Marie to be branded with Sir Stephen's mark and to have
         rings 
         with his insignia inserted in her cunt; she serves as an erotic model for Jacqueline's
         younger 
         sister Natalie who is infatuated with her; she is taken to a party masked as an owl,
         led on a 
         leash by Natalie, and there plundered, despoiled, raped, gangbanged; realizing that
         there is 
         nothing else left for Sir Stephen to do with her or to her, fearing that he will abandon
         her, she 
         asks his permission to kill herself and receives it. Q.E.D., pornography is never
         big on plot.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         Of course, like most summaries, the above is somewhat sketchy. I have not mentioned
         the 
         quantities of cock that O sucks, or the anal assaults that she sustains, or the various
         rapes 
         and tortures perpetrated on her by minor characters in the book, or the varieties
         of whips 
         used, or described her clothing or the different kinds of nipple rouge, or the many
         ways in 
         which she is chained, or the shapes and colors of the welts on her body.
         </p>
      
      <p> 
         From the course of O's story emerges a clear mythological figure: <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_patriarchy">she is woman, and to name 
            her O, zero, emptiness, says it all. Her ideal state is one of complete passivity,
            nothingness, 
            a submission so absolute that she transcends human form<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">submission of women</span></span> (in becoming an owl). Only the 
         hole between her legs is left to define her, and the symbol of that hole must surely
         be O. 
         Much, however, even in the rarefied environs of pornography, necessarily interferes
         with the 
         attainment of utter passivity. <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip" data-subcategories="f_enlightenment_individualism">Given a body which takes up space, has needs, makes 
            demands, is connected, even symbolically, to a personal history which is a sequence
            of 
            likes, dislikes, skills, opinions, one is formed, shaped--one exists at the very least
            as positive 
            space.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">women as an individual</span></span> And since in addition as a woman one is born guilty and carnal, personifying the
         sins 
         of <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_christianity">Eve<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">Adam and Eve</span></span> and <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_greekmyth">Pandora<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">Pandora's box</span></span>, the wickedness of <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_judaism">Jezebel<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">Queen of Israel</span></span> and Lucretia Borgia, O's transcendence of the 
         species is truly phenomenal.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         The thesis of O is simple. <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_patriarchy">Woman is cunt, lustful, wanton. She must be punished, tamed, 
            debased. She gives the gift of herself, her body, her well-being, her life, to her
            lover. This is as 
            it should be--natural and good.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">belief in natural sexuality and submission</span></span> It ends necessarily in her annihilation, which is also natural 
         and good, as well as beautiful, because she fulfills her destiny:
         </p>
      
      <p>
         As long as I am beaten and ravished on your behalf, I am naught but the thought of
         you, the 
         desire of you, the obsession of you. That, I believe, is what you wanted. Well, I
         love you, and 
         that is what I want too. <sup style="font-size: 0.8em; vertical-align: super; color: #4b0082;">2</sup>
         </p>
      
      <p>
         Then let him take her, if only to wound her! O hated herself for her own desire, and
         loathed 
         Sir Stephen for the self-control he was displaying. She wanted him to love her, there,
         the truth 
         was out: she wanted him to be chafing under the urge to touch her lips and penetrate
         her 
         body, to devastate her if need be. . . . <sup style="font-size: 0.8em; vertical-align: super; color: #4b0082;">3</sup>
         </p>
      
      <p>
         . . . Yet he was certain that she was guilty and, without really wanting to, Rene
         was punishing 
         her for a sin he knew nothing about (since it remained completely internal), although
         Sir 
         Stephen had immediately detected it: her wantonness. <sup style="font-size: 0.8em; vertical-align: super; color: #4b0082;">4</sup>
         </p>
      
      <p>
         . . . no pleasure, no joy, no figment of her imagination could ever compete with the
         happiness 
         she felt at the way he used her with such utter freedom, at the notion that he could
         do
         anything with her, that there was no limit, no restriction in the manner with which,
         on her 
         body, he might search for pleasure. <sup style="font-size: 0.8em; vertical-align: super; color: #4b0082;">5</sup>
         </p>
      
      <p>
         O is totally possessed. That means that she is an object, with no control over her
         own 
         mobility, capable of no assertion of personality. Her body is a body, in the same
         way that a 
         pencil is a pencil, a bucket is a bucket, or, as Gertrude Stein pointedly said, a
         rose is a rose. 
         It also means that O's energy, or power, as a woman, as Woman, is absorbed. <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_patriarchy">Possession 
            here denotes a biological transference of power which brings with it a commensurate
            
            spiritual strength to the possessor. O does more than offer herself; she is herself
            the offering.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"> biological and spiritual power transfer</span></span> 
         To offer herself would be <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_christianity">prosaic Christian self-sacrifice<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">non-poetic sacrifice</span></span>, but as the offering she is the vehicle 
         of the miraculous--she incorporates the divine.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         Here sacrifice has its ancient, primal meaning: that which was given at the beginning
         
         becomes the gift. The first fruits of the harvest were dedicated to and consumed by
         the 
         vegetation spirit which provided them. The destruction of the victim in human or animal
         
         sacrifice or the consumption of the offering was the very definition of the sacrifice--death
         
         was necessary because the victim was or represented the life-giving substance, the
         vital 
         energy source, which had to be liberated, which only death could liberate. An actual
         death, 
         the sacrifice per se, not only liberated benevolent energy but also ensured a propagation
         and 
         increase of life energy (concretely expressed as fertility) by a sort of magical ecology,
         a 
         recycling of basic energy, or raw power. O's victimization is the confirmation of
         her power, a 
         power which is transcendental and which has as its essence the sacred processes of
         life, 
         death, and regeneration.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         But the full significance of possession, both mystically and mythologically, is not
         yet clear. 
         In mystic experience communion (wrongly called possession sometimes) has meant the
         
         dissolution of the ego, the entry into ecstasy, union with and illumination of the
         godhead. The 
         experience of communion has been the province of the mystic, prophet, or visionary,
         those 
         who were able to alchemize their energy into pure spirit and this spirit into a state
         of grace. 
         Possession, rightly defined, is the perversion of the mystic experience; it is by
         its very nature 
         demonic because its goal is power, its means are violence and oppression. It spills
         the blood 
         of its victim and in doing so estranges itself from life-giving union. O's lover thinks
         that she 
         gives herself freely but if she did not, he would take her anyway. Their relationship
         is the 
         incarnation of demonic possession:
         </p>
      
      <p>
         Thus he would possess her as a god possesses his creatures, whom he lays hold of in
         the 
         guise of a monster or bird, of an invisible spirit or a state of ecstasy. He did not
         wish to leave 
         her. The more he surrendered her, the more he would hold her dear. <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_patriarchy">The fact that he gave her 
            was to him a proof, and ought to be for her as well, that she belonged to him: one
            can only 
            give what belongs to you. He gave her only to reclaim her immediately, to reclaim
            her 
            enriched in his eyes, like some common object which had been used for some divine
            
            purpose and has thus been consecrated. For a long time he had wanted to prostitute
            her, 
            and he was delighted to feel that the pleasure he was deriving was even greater than
            he had 
            hoped, and that it bound him to her all the more so because, through it, she would
            be more 
            humiliated and ravished. Since she loved him, she could not help loving whatever derived
            
            from him.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">ownership and control</span></span> <sup style="font-size: 0.8em; vertical-align: super; color: #4b0082;">6</sup>
         </p>
      
      <p>
         <span class="tooltip class-tooltip" data-subcategories="working_class">A precise corollary of possession is prostitution. The prostitute, the woman as object,
            is 
            defined by the usage to which the possessor puts her. Her subjugation is the signet
            of his 
            power. Prostitution means for the woman the carnal annihilation of will and choice,
            but for 
            the man it once again signifies an increase in power, pure and simple.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">sex work</span></span> To call the power of 
         the possessor, which he demonstrates by playing superpimp, divine, or to confuse it
         with 
         ecstasy or communion, is to grossly misunderstand. "All the mouths that had probed
         her 
         mouth, all the hands that had seized her breasts and belly, all the members that had
         been 
         thrust into her had so perfectly provided the living proof that she was worthy of
         being 
         prostituted and had, so to speak, sanctified her." <sup style="font-size: 0.8em; vertical-align: super; color: #4b0082;">7</sup> Of course, it is not O who is sanctified, 
         but Rene, or Sir Stephen, or the others, through her.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         O's prostitution is a vicious caricature of old-world religious prostitution. The
         ancient sacral 
         prostitution of the <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_judaism">Hebrews<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">Jewish Prostitution</span></span>, <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_greekmyth">Greeks<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">Greek Prostitution</span></span>, <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_non_western">Indians<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">Hindu Prostitution</span></span>, et al., was the ritual expression of respect and 
         veneration for the powers of fertility and generation. <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_religion">The priestesses/prostitutes of the 
            temple were literal personifications of the life energy of the earth goddess, and
            transferred 
            that energy to those who participated in her rites. The cosmic principles, articulated
            as 
            divine male and divine female, were ritually united in the temple because clearly
            only 
            through their continuing and repeated union could the fertility of the earth and the
            well-being 
            of a people be ensured. Sacred prostitution was "nothing less than an act of communion
            
            with god (or godhead) and was as remote from sensuality as the Christian act of communion
            
            is remote from gluttony."<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">Religion and Prostitution</span></span> <sup style="font-size: 0.8em; vertical-align: super; color: #4b0082;">8</sup> O and all of the women at Roissy are distinguished by their sterility 
         and bear no resemblance whatsoever to any known goddess. No mention is ever made of
         
         conception or menstruation, and procreation is never a consequence of fucking. O's
         fertility 
         has been rendered O. There is nothing sacred about O's prostitution.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_patriarchy">O's degradation is occasioned by the male need for and fear of initiation into manhood.
            
            Initiation rites generally include a period of absolute solitude, isolation, followed
            by tests of 
            physical courage, mental endurance, often through torture and physical mutilation,
            resulting 
            in a permanent scar or tattoo which marks the successful initiate. The process of
            initiation 
            is designed to reveal the values, rites, and rules of manhood and confers on the initiate
            the 
            responsibilities and privileges of manhood.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">Initiation into Manhood</span></span> What occurs at Roissy is a clear perversion of 
         real initiation. Rene and the others mutilate O's body, but they are themselves untouched.
         
         Her body substitutes for their bodies. O is marked with the scars which they should
         bear. She 
         undergoes their ordeal for them, endures the solitude and isolation, the torture,
         the 
         mutilation. In trying to become gods, they have bypassed the necessary rigors of becoming
         
         men. The fact that the tortures must be repeated endlessly, not only on O but on large
         
         numbers of women who are forced as well as persuaded, demonstrates that the men of
         
         Roissy never in fact become men, are never initiates, never achieve the security of
         realized 
         manhood.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_patriarchy">What would be the sign of the initiate, the final mark or scar, manifests in the case
            of O as an 
            ultimate expression of sadism. The rings through O's cunt with Sir Stephen's name
            and 
            heraldry, and the brand on her ass, are permanent wedding rings rightly placed. They
            mark 
            her as an owned object and in no way symbolize the passage into maturity and freedom.
            The 
            same might be said of the conventional wedding ring.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">Male ownership in marriage</span></span>
         </p>
      
      <p>
         <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_social">O, in her never-ending role as surrogate everything, also is the direct sexual link
            between Sir 
            Stephen and Rene. That the two men love each other and fuck each other through O is
            made 
            clear by the fact that Sir Stephen uses O anally most of the time. The consequences
            of 
            misdirecting sexual energy are awesome indeed.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">heteronormativity</span></span>
         </p>
      
      <p>
         But what is most extraordinary about Story of O is the mind-boggling literary style
         of Pauline 
         Reage, its author. O is wanton yet pure, Sir Stephen is cruel yet kind, Rene is brutal
         yet gentle, 
         a wall is black yet white. Everything is what it is, what it isn't, and its direct
         opposite. That 
         technique, which is so skillfully executed, might help to account for the compelling
         
         irrationality of Story of O. For those women who are convinced yet doubtful, attracted
         yet 
         repelled, there is this schema for self-protection: the double-double think that the
         author 
         engages in is very easy to deal with if we just realize that we only have to double-double
         
         unthink it.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_patriarchy">To sum up, Story of O is a story of psychic cannibalism, demonic possession, a story
            which 
            posits men and women as being at opposite poles of the universe--the survival of one
            
            dependent on the absolute destruction of the other. It asks, like many stories, who
            is the 
            most powerful, and it answers: men are, literally over women's dead bodies.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">Men possess power over all women</span></span>
         </p>
      </body>
</html>