<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../style.css"/>
      <title>AFTER THE DEATH OF GOD THE FATHER Women's Liberation and the transformation of
            Christian consciousness</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <nav>
         <ul>
            <li><a href="../index.html">Main</a></li>
            <li><a href="../methodology.html">Methodology</a></li>
            <li><a href="../texts.html">Texts</a></li>
            <li><a href="../analysis.html">Analysis</a></li>
         </ul>
      </nav>
      <nav class="link-column">
         <div class="textNav">
            <ul>
               <li>
                  <a href="../wave2.html">Overview</a>
               </li>
               <li>
                  <a href="TheFeminineMystique.xhtml">The Feminine Mystique</a>
               </li>
               <li>
                  <a href="TheSecondSex.xhtml">The Second Sex</a>
               </li>
               <li>
                  <a href="AtlanticCityPageant.xhtml">Atlantic City is a Town with
                     Class</a>
               </li>
               <li>
                  <a href="WomenHating.xhtml">Women Hating</a>
               </li>
               <li>
                  <a href="ThereWasAYoungWoman.xhtml">There was a young woman who
                     swallowed a lie</a>
               </li>
               <li>
                  <a href="FuriesLesbian.xhtml">The Furies: Lesbian/Feminist Monthly</a>
               </li>
               <li>
                  <a href="TheDeathOfGod.xhtml">After The Death of God The Father</a>
               </li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </nav>
      <div class="checkboxList">
         <h3>Power Systems</h3><label class="container">Patriarchy<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="patriarchy"/></label><label class="container">Religion<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="religion"/></label><label class="container">Class<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="class"/></label><label class="container">Race<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="race"/></label><label class="container">Political<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="political"/></label><label class="container">Social<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="social"/></label><label class="container">Matriarchy<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="matriarchy"/></label><h3>Religion</h3><label class="container">Non-Western<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="non_western"/></label><label class="container">Islam<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="islam"/></label><label class="container">Protestantism<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="protestantism"/></label><label class="container">Catholicism<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="catholicism"/></label><label class="container">Judaism<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="judaism"/></label><label class="container">Indigenous<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="indigenous"/></label><label class="container">Christianity<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="christianity"/></label><label class="container">Greek Mythology<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="greekmyth"/></label><label class="container">Quaker<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="quaker"/></label><label class="container">Anglican<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="anglican"/></label><h3>Identity</h3><label class="container">Race<input type="checkbox" data-category="identity" data-subcategory="race"/></label><label class="container">Sexuality<input type="checkbox" data-category="identity" data-subcategory="sexuality"/></label><label class="container">Gender<input type="checkbox" data-category="identity" data-subcategory="gender"/></label><label class="container">Nationality<input type="checkbox" data-category="identity" data-subcategory="nationality"/></label><h3>Feminist Theory</h3><label class="container">Marxist<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="marxist"/></label><label class="container">Radfem<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="rad_fem"/></label><label class="container">Terf<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="terf"/></label><label class="container">Liberal<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="liberal"/></label><label class="container">Praxis<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="praxis"/></label><label class="container">Antifeminist<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="antifeminist"/></label><label class="container">Political Lesbian<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="political_lesbian"/></label><label class="container">Abolitionist<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="abolitionist"/></label><label class="container">Enlightenment Individualism<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="enlightenment_individualism"/></label><h3>Social Theory</h3><label class="container">Freud<input type="checkbox" data-category="social" data-subcategory="freud"/></label><label class="container">Rights of Man<input type="checkbox" data-category="social" data-subcategory="rights_of_man"/></label><label class="container">Enlightenment Individualism<input type="checkbox" data-category="social" data-subcategory="enlightenment"/></label><label class="container">Natural Rights<input type="checkbox" data-category="social" data-subcategory="natural_rights"/></label></div><script>
                    // Function to get all checked subcategories for a given category
                    function getCheckedSubcategories(category) {
                    const checkboxes = document.querySelectorAll(`input[data-category="${category}"]:checked`);
                    return Array.from(checkboxes).map(cb =&gt; cb.dataset.subcategory);
                    }
                    
                    // Function to check if any checkbox in a category is checked
                    function isCategoryActive(category) {
                    const checkboxes = document.querySelectorAll(`input[data-category="${category}"]`);
                    return Array.from(checkboxes).some(cb =&gt; cb.checked);
                    }
                    
                    // Function to update tooltip visibility
                    function updateTooltips() {
                    // Define mapping of categories to tooltip classes and their prefixes
                    const categories = {
                    'fem': { class: 'fem-tooltip', prefix: 'f_' },
                    'power': { class: 'power-tooltip', prefix: 'p_' },
                    'social': { class: 'social-tooltip', prefix: 's_' },
                    'religion': { class: 'religion-tooltip', prefix: 'r_' },
                    'identity': { class: 'identity-tooltip', prefix: '' },
                    'class': { class: 'class-tooltip', prefix: '' }
                    };
                    
                    // For each category, show/hide corresponding tooltips
                    Object.keys(categories).forEach(category =&gt; {
                    const tooltipClass = categories[category].class;
                    const prefix = categories[category].prefix;
                    const tooltips = document.querySelectorAll(`.${tooltipClass}`);
                    const checkedSubcategories = getCheckedSubcategories(category);
                    
                    tooltips.forEach(tooltip =&gt; {
                    // If no checkboxes in this category are checked, hide the tooltip
                    if (checkedSubcategories.length === 0) {
                    tooltip.classList.add('tooltip-hidden');
                    } else {
                    // Check if tooltip has any of the checked subcategories
                    const tooltipSubcategories = tooltip.dataset.subcategories 
                    ? tooltip.dataset.subcategories.split(',') 
                    : [];
                    
                    // Show tooltip if it has any of the checked subcategories
                    const hasMatch = checkedSubcategories.some(subcategory =&gt; 
                    tooltipSubcategories.includes(prefix + subcategory)
                    );
                    
                    if (hasMatch) {
                    tooltip.classList.remove('tooltip-hidden');
                    } else {
                    tooltip.classList.add('tooltip-hidden');
                    }
                    }
                    });
                    });
                    }
                    
                    // Initialize when page loads
                    document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
                    // Add event listeners to all checkboxes
                    const allCheckboxes = document.querySelectorAll('input[type="checkbox"][data-category]');
                    allCheckboxes.forEach(checkbox =&gt; {
                    checkbox.addEventListener('change', updateTooltips);
                    });
                    
                    // Hide all tooltips initially
                    updateTooltips();
                    });
                    </script><h1>AFTER THE DEATH OF GOD THE FATHER Women's Liberation and the transformation of
         Christian consciousness</h1><span style="font-style: italic; text-align: center; margin: 15px 200px;">
         By Mary Daly (1971)
         </span>
      
      <p>The women's liberation movement has produced a deluge of books and
         articles. Their major task has been exposition and criticism of our <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_patriarchy">male-centered heritage<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">male-centered</span></span>. In order to
         reveal and drive home to readers the oppressive character of our cultural institutions,
         it was necessary to do careful research, to trot out passages from leading philosophers,
         psychologists, statesmen, poets, historians, saints and theologians which make the
         reader's hair stand on end by the blatancy of their misogynism. Part of the task also
         has been the tracing of the subtle psychological mechanisms by which society has held
         men up and women down. This method of exposition and analysis reached its crescendo
         within this past year when Kate Millet's Sexual Politics rocketed her into the role
         of
         American counterpart to Simone de Beauvoir. </p>
      
      <p>As far as the level of creative research is concerned, that phase
         of the work is finished. The skeletons in our cultural closet have been hauled out
         for
         inspection. I do not mean to imply that there are not countless more of the same to
         be
         uncovered (just the other day I noticed for the first time that Berdyaev blandly affirms
         <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_patriarchy">there is something base and
            sinister in the female element<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">women as worse and lesser</span></span> ." Etcetera). Nor do I mean that the
         task of communicating the message is over. Millions have yet to hear the news, let
         alone
         to grasp its import. Certainly it would be a mistake and a betrayal to trivialize
         the
         fact that our culture is so diseased. That has always been a major tactic in the fine
         art of suppressing the rage of women. No, what I am saying is that Phase One of critical
         research and writing in the movement has opened the way for the logical next step
         in
         creative thinking. We now have to ask how the women's revolution can and should change
         our whole vision of reality. What I intend to do here is to sketch some of the ways
         in
         which it can influence Western religious thought. </p>
      
      <p>The <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_judaism">Judaic<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">judeochristian</span></span>-<span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_christianity">Christian<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">judeochristian</span></span>tradition has served to legitimate sexually unbalanced patriarchal
         society. Thus, for example, the image of the Father God, spawned in the human
         imagination and sustained as plausible by patriarchy, has in turn rendered service
         to
         this type of society by making its mechanisms for the oppression of women appear right
         and fitting. <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_religion">If God in "his"
            heaven is a father ruling "his" people, then it is in the "nature" of things and
            according to divine plan and the order of the universe that society be
            male-dominated.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">god legitimizing patriarchy</span></span> Theologian Karl Barth found it appropriate to write
         that <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_patriarchy">woman is "ontologically" subordinate
            to man.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">women as lesser</span></span> Within this context a mystification of roles takes place: the
         husband dominating his wife represents God himself. What is happening, of course,
         is the
         familiar mechanism by which the images and values of a given society are projected
         into
         'a realm of beliefs, which in turn justify the social infrastructure. The belief system
         becomes hardened and objectified, seeming to have an unchangeable independent existence
         and validity of its own. It resists social change which would rob it of its
         plausibility. Nevertheless, despite the vicious circle, change does occur in society,
         and ideologies die. though they die hard. </p>
      
      <p>As the women's revolution begins to have its effect upon the fabric
         of society, transforming it from patriarchy into something that never existed
         before—into a diarchal situation that is radically new—it will, I believe, become
         <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_christianity">the greatest single potential
            challenge to Christianity <span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">christianity under threat</span></span> to rid itself of its oppressive tendencies or
         go out of business. Beliefs and values that have held sway for thousands of years
         will
         be questioned as never before. It is also very possibly the greatest single hope for
         survival of religious consciousness in the West. </p>
      
      
      <p>At this point it is important to consider the objection that the
         liberation of women will only mean that new characters will assume the same old roles,
         but that nothing will change essentially in regard to structure, ideology, or values.
         This objection is often based upon the observation that the very few women in
         "masculine" occupations seem to behave very much as men do. This is really not to
         the
         point for it fails to recognize that the effect of tokenism is not to change stereotypes
         or social systems but to preserve these. What I am discussing here is an emergence
         of
         women such as has never taken place before. It is naive to assume that the coming
         of
         women into equal power in society generally and in the church in particular will simply
         mean uncritical acceptance of values formerly given priority by men. Rather, I suggest
         that it will be a catalyst for transformation of our culture. </p>
      
      <p><span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_patriarchy">The roles and structures of
            patriarchy have been developed and sustained in accordance with an artificial
            polarization of human qualities into the traditional sexual
            stereotypes.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">artificial patriarchy</span></span> <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="gender">The image of the person in authority and the accepted
            understanding of "his" role have corresponded to the eternal masculine stereotype,
            which
            implies hyper- rationality, "objectivity," aggressivity, the possession of dominating
            and manipulative attitudes toward persons and environment and the tendency to construct
            boundaries between the self (and those identified with the self) and "the other."<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">masculine stereotype</span></span> The
         caricature of a human being which is represented by this stereotype depends for its
         existence upon the opposite caricature —<span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="gender">the eternal feminine (hyper-emotional, passive,
            self-abasing, etc.).<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">feminine stereotype</span></span> <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip" data-subcategories="f_rad_fem">By becoming whole persons women can generate a counterforce to the
            stereotype of the leader as they challenge the artificial polarization of human
            characteristics.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">becoming whole persons</span></span> There is no reason to assume that women who have the support of their
         sisters to criticize the masculine stereotype will simply adopt it as a model for
         themselves. More likely they will develop a wider range of qualities and skills in
         themselves and thereby encourage men to engage in a comparably liberating procedure
         (a
         phenomenon we are beginning to witness already in men's liberation groups). This
         becoming of whole human beings will affect the values of our society, for it will
         involve a change in the fabric of human consciousness. </p>
      
      <p>Accordingly, it is reasonable to anticipate that this change will
         affect the symbols which reflect the values of our society, including religious symbols.
         <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_christianity">Since some of these have functioned to justify oppression, women and men would do
            well
            to welcome this change. Religious symbols die when the cultural situation that supported
            them ceases to give them plausibility.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">religious symbols as oppression</span></span> This should pose no problem to authentic faith,
         which accepts the relativity of all symbols and recognizes that fixation upon any
         of
         them as absolute in itself is idolatrous. </p>
      
      <p>The becoming of new symbols is not a matter that can arbitrarily be
         decided around a conference table. Rather, they grow out of a changing communal
         situation and experience. This does not mean that theologically we are consigned to
         the
         role of passive spectators.<span class="tooltip fem-tooltip" data-subcategories="f_rad_fem">We are called upon to be attentive to what the new
            experience of the becoming of women is revealing to us, and to foster the evolution
            of
            consciousness beyond the oppressiveness and imbalance reflected and justified by symbols
            and doctrines throughout the millennia of patriarchy.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">consciousness evolution</span></span></p>
      
      <p>This imbalance is apparent first of all in the biblical and popular
         image of trie great patriarch in heaven who rewards and punishes according to his
         mysterious and arbitrary will. <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_christianity">The fact that the effects of this image have not always
            been humanizing is evident to any perceptive reader of history. The often cruel behavior
            of Christians toward unbelievers and even toward dissenters among themselves is shocking
            evidence of the function of that image in relation to values and behavior.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">cruelty of christians, god as patriarch in heaven</span></span> </p>
      
      
      <p>Sophisticated thinkers, of course, have never intellectually
         identified God with an elderly parent in heaven. Nevertheless it is important to
         recognize that even when very abstract conceptualizations of God arc formulated in
         the
         mind, images have a way of surviving in the imagination in such a way that a person
         can
         function on two different and even apparently contradictory levels at the same time.
         <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_christianity">Thus one can speak of God as spirit and at the same time imagine "him" as belonging
            to
            the male sex.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">God as male</span></span> Such primitive images can profoundly affect conceptualizations which
         appear to be very refined and abstract. Even the Yahweh of the future, so cherished
         by
         the theology of hope, comes through on an imaginative level as exclusively a He-God,
         and
         it is perhaps consistent with this that theologians of hope have attempted to develop
         a
         political theology which takes no explicit cognizance of the devastation wrought by
         sexual politics. <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_religion">The widespread conception of the "Supreme Being" as an entity distinct
            from this world but controlling it according to plan and keeping human beings in a
            state
            of infantile subjection has been a not too subtle mask of the divine patriarch. <span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">Supreme Being as divine patriarch</span></span> The
         Supreme Being's plausibility, and that of the static worldview which accompanies this
         projection has, of course, declined. This was a projection grounded in specifically
         patriarchal infrastructures and sustained as subjectively real by the usual processes
         of
         generating plausibility. The sustaining power of the social infrastructures has been
         eroded by a number of developments in recent history, including the general trend
         toward
         democratization of society and the emergence of technology with the accompanying sense
         of mastery over' the world and man's destiny. <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip" data-subcategories="f_rad_fem">However, it is the women's movement which
            appears destined to play the key-role in the overthrow of such oppressive elements
            in
            traditional theism, precisely because it strikes at the source of the imbalance
            reflected in traditional beliefs.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">women's movement and theism</span></span> The women's movement will present a growing threat to
         patriarchal religion less by attacking it than by simply leaving it behind. Few of
         the
         leaders in the movement evince an interest in institutional religion, having recognized
         it as an instrument of their betrayal. Those who see their commitment to the movement
         as
         consonant with concern for the religious heritage are aware that the Christian tradition
         is by no means bereft of elements which foster genuine experiences and intimations
         of
         transcendence. The problem is that their liberating potential is choked off in the
         surrounding atmosphere of the images, ideas, values, and structures of patriarchy.
         What
         will, I think, become possible through the social change coming from radical feminism
         is
         a more acute and widespread perception of qualitative differences between those
         conceptualizations of God and of the human relationship to God which are oppressive
         in
         their implications, and those which encourage self-actualization and social commitment.
         </p>
      
      <p> <span class="tooltip social-tooltip" data-subcategories="s_enlightenment_individualism">The various theologies that hypostatize transcendence invariably
            use this "God" to legitimate oppression, particularly that of women. These are
            irredeemably anti- feminine and therefore anti-human.</span> In contrast to this, a more
         authentic language of transcendence does not hypostatize or objectify God and
         consequently does not lend itself to such use. So for example, Tillich's way of speaking
         about God as ground and power of being would be very difficult to use for the
         legitimation of any sort of oppression. It grows out of awareness of that reality
         which
         is both transcendent and immanent, not reducible to or adequately represented by such
         expressions as person, father, supreme being. Awareness of this reality is not achieved
         by playing theological games but by existential courage. I am not saying that a
         liberated consciousness necessarily will use Tillich's language of transcendence.
         That
         of Whitehead, James, Jaspers, to mention a few—or an entirely new language—may do
         as
         well or better. But it remains true that the driving revelatory force which will make
         possible an authenticity of religious consciousness is courage in the face of anxiety.
         </p>
      
      <p><span class="tooltip fem-tooltip" data-subcategories="f_rad_fem">Since the projections of patriarchal religion have been blocking
            the dynamics of existential courage by otlering the false security of alienation—that
            is, of self-reduction to stereotyped roles—there is reason to see hope for the emergence
            of genuine religious consciousness in the massive challenge to patriarchy which is
            now
            in its initial stages. The becoming of women may be not only the doorway to deliverance
            from the omnipotent Father in all of his disguises—a deliverance which secular humanism
            has passionately fought for—but also a doorway to something, that is, the beginning
            for
            many of a more authentic search for transcendence, that is, for God.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">deliverance from patriarchy</span></span></p>
      
      <p> The imbalance in Christian ideology resulting from sexual
         hierarchy is manifested not only in the doctrine of God but also in the notion of
         Jesus
         as the unique God-man. <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_christianity">A great deal of Christian doctrine concerning Jesus has been
            docetic, that is, it has not really seriously accepted the fact that Jesus was a human
            being. <span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">docetic christianity, Jesus as human</span></span> An effect of the liberation of women will very likely be the loss of plausibility
         of Christological formulas which come close to reflecting a kind of idolatry in regard
         to the person of Jesus. As it becomes better understood that God is transcendent and
         unobjcctifiable—or else not at all— it will become less plausible to speak of Jesus
         as
         the Second Person of the Trinity who "assumed" a human nature. <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_religion">Indeed, the prevalent
            emphasis upon the total uniqueness and supereminence of Jesus will, I think, become
            less
            meaningful. To say this is not at all to deny his extraordinary character and mission.
            The point is to attempt a realistic assessment of certain ways of using his image
            (which
            in all likelihood he himself would repudiate). It is still not uncommon for priests
            and
            ministers, when confronted with the issue of women's liberation, to assert that God
            become incarnate uniquely as a male, and then to draw arguments for male supremacy
            from
            this. Indeed, the tradition itself tends to justify such assertions. The underlying—and
            often explicit—assumption in the minds of theologians down through the centuries has
            been that the divinity could not have deigned to become incarnate in the "inferior"
            sex,
            and the "fact" that "he" did not do so reinforces the belief in masculine superiority.
            <span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">Jesus as male supremacy</span></span>
         The transformation of society by the erosion of male dominance will generate serious
         challenges to such assumptions of the Christological tradition. </p>
      
      <p><span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_christianity">It will, I think, become increasingly evident that exclusively
            masculine symbols for the ideal of "incarnation" will not do. As a uniquely masculine
            divinity loses credibility, so also the idea of a unique divine incarnation in a human
            being of the male sex may give way in the religious consciousness to an increased
            awareness of the divine presence in all human beings, understood as expressing and
            in a
            real sense incarnating—although always inadequately—the power of being.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">masculine incarnation symbolism</span></span> The seeds of
         this awareness are already present, of course, in the traditional doctrine that all
         human beings are made to the image of God and in a less than adequate way in the
         doctrine of grace. Now it should become possible to work out with increasing realism
         the
         implication in both of these doctrines that human beings are called to
         self-actualization and to the creation of a community that fosters the becoming of
         women
         and men. This means that no completely adequate models can be taken from the past.
         It
         may be that we will witness a re- mythologizing of Western religion. Certainly, if
         the
         need for parental symbols for God persists, something like the Father-Mother God
         proposed by Mary Baker Eddy will be more acceptable to the new woman and the new man
         than the Father God of the past. A symbolism for incarnation of the divine in human
         beings may continue to be needed in the future, but it is highly unlikely that women
         or
         men will continue to find plausible that symbolism which is epitomized in the image
         of
         the Virgin kneeling in adoration before her own son. <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_christianity">Perhaps this will be replaced by
            the emergence of bisexual imagery which is not hierarchical. The experience of the
            past brought forth a new Adam and a new Eve. Perhaps the future will bring a new Christ
            and a new Mary. <span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">bisexual imagery</span></span> For the present, it would appear that we arc being called upon to
         recognize the poverty of all symbols and the fact of our past idolatry regarding them,
         and to turn to our own resources for bringing about the radically new in our own lives.
         </p>
      
      <p><span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_christianity">The manifestation of God in Jesus was an eschato- logical event
            whose fulfilled reality lies in the future. The Jesus of the Gospels was a free person
            who challenged ossified beliefs and laws. Since he was remarkably free of prejudice
            against women and treated them as equals insofar as the limitations of his culture
            'would allow, it is certain that he would be working with them for their liberation
            today. This awakening of women to their human potentiality by creative action as they
            assume equal partnership with men in society can bring about a manifestation of God
            in
            themselves which will be the Second Coming of God incarnate, fulfilling the latent
            promise in the original revelation that men and women are made to the image of God.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">Jesus and women's liberation</span></span> </p>
      
      <h3>Behind the Mask </h3>
      
      <p>It should be evident, then, that women's liberation is an event
         that can challenge authoritarian, exclusive and non-existential notions of faith and
         revelation. <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip" data-subcategories="f_rad_fem">Since women have been extra-environmentals, to use a McLuhanish term, that
            is, since they have not been part of the authority structure which uses "faith" and
            "revelation" to reinforce the mechanisms of alienation, their emergence can effect
            a
            more widespread critical- ness of idolatry which is often masked by these ideas.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">women as extra-environmentals</span></span> There
         could result from this a more general understanding of faith as a state of ultimate
         concern and commitment and a heightened sense of relativity concerning the symbols
         it
         uses to express this commitment. An awareness might also emerge—not merely in the
         minds
         of a theological elite, but in the general con sciousness—that revelation is an ongoing
         experience. </p>
      
      <p><span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_christianity">The becoming of women implies also a transvaluation of values in
            Christian morality. As the old order is challenged and as men and women become freed
            to
            experience a wholeness of personality which the old polarizations impeded, the
            potentiality will be awakened for a change in moral consciousness which will go far
            beyond Nietzsche's merely reactionary rejection of Christian values. <span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">challenge old order and change morals</span></span> </p>
      
      <p> <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_christianity">Much of the traditional theory of Christian virtue appears to be
            the product of reactions on the part of men —perhaps guilty reactions—to the behavioral
            excesses of the stereotypic male. There has been theoretical emphasis upon charity,
            meekness, obedience, humility, self- abnegation, sacrifice, service. Part of the problem
            with this moral ideology is that it became generally accepted not by men but by women,
            who have hardly been helped by an ethic which reinforced their abject situation.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">passive virtues</span></span> This
         emphasis upon the passive virtues, of course, has not challenged exploitativeness
         but
         supported it. Part of the syndrome is the prevailing notion of sin as an offense against
         those in power, or against "God" (the two are often equated). Within the perspective
         of
         such a privatized morality the structures themselves of oppression arc not seen as
         sinful.</p>
      
      <p><span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_christianity">Consistent with all of this is the fact that the traditional
            Christian moral consciousness has been fixated upon the problems of reproductive
            activity in a manner totally disproportionate to its feeble political concern. This
            was
            summed up several years ago in Archbishop Roberts' remark that "if contraceptives
            had
            been dropped over Japan instead of bombs which merely killed, maimed and shriveled
            up
            thousands alive there would have been a squeal of outraged protest from the Vatican
            to
            the remotest Mass center in Asia." Pertinent also is Simone de Beauvoir's remark that
            the church has reserved its uncompromising humanitarian- ism for man in the fetal
            condition.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">reproductive morality</span></span> Although theologians today acknowledge that this privatized morality has
         failed to cope with the structures of oppression, few seriously face the possibility
         that the roots of this distortion are deeply buried in the fundamental and all-
         pervasive sexual alienation which the women's movement is seeking to
         overcome.</p>
      
      <p> <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_religion">It is well-known that Christians under the spell of the jealous
            God who represents the coliective power of his chosen people can use religion to justify
            that "us and them" attitude which is disastrous in its consequences for the powerless.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">projection of the other</span></span>
         <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_patriarchy">&gt; It is less widely understood that the projection of "the other"—easily adaptable
            to
            national, racial and class differences—has basically and primordially been directed
            against women. Even the rhetoric of racism finds its model in sexism.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">sexism as root of all bigotry</span></span></p>
      
      
      <p> <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip" data-subcategories="f_rad_fem">The consciousness-raising which is beginning among women is
            evoking a qualitatively new understanding of the subtle mechanisms which produce and
            destroy "the other," and a consequent empathy with all of the oppressed. This gives
            grounds for the hope that their emergence can generate a counterforce to the
            exploitative mentality which is destroying persons and the environment. Since the
            way
            men and women are seen in society is a prime determinant in the whole social system
            and
            ideology, radical women refuse to see their movement as simply one among others. What
            I
            am suggesting is that it might be the only chance for the turning of human beings
            from a
            course leading to the deterioration and perhaps the end of life on this
            planet. <span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">saving humanity from destruction</span></span> </p>
      
      <p> Those who see their concern for women's liberation as consonant
         with an evolving Christianity would be unrealistic to expect much comprehension from
         the
         majority of male ecclesiastics. Such writers as Gordon Rattrey Taylor (The Biological
         Time Bomb), Robert Francoeur (Utopian Motherhood), and others ke«p beeping out the
         message that we are moving into a world in which human sexuality is no longer merely
         oriented to reproduction of the species—which means that the masculine and feminine
         mystiques are doomed to evaporate. Within the theological community, however, the
         predictable and almost universal response has been what one might call the ostrich
         syndrome. Whereas the old theology justified sexual oppression, the new theology for
         the
         most part simply ignores it and goes on in comfortable compatibility with it, failing
         to
         recognize its deep connection with such other major problems as war, racism and
         environmental pollution. The work of fostering religious consciousness which is
         explicitly incompatible with sexism will require an extraordinary degree of creative
         rage, love and hope.</p>
      </body>
</html>