<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../style.css"/>
      <title>The Feminine Mystique</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <nav>
         <ul>
            <li><a href="../index.html">Main</a></li>
            <li><a href="../methodology.html">Methodology</a></li>
            <li><a href="../texts.html">Texts</a></li>
            <li><a href="../analysis.html">Analysis</a></li>
         </ul>
      </nav>
      <nav class="link-column">
         <div class="textNav">
            <ul> 
               <li><a href="texts/TheFeminineMystique.xhtml">The Feminine Mystique</a></li>
               <li><a href="texts/TheSecondSex.xhtml">The Second Sex</a></li>
               <li><a href="texts/AtlanticCityPageant.xhtml">Atlantic City is a Town with Class</a></li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </nav>
      <h1>The Feminine Mystique</h1>
      
      <p>
         IT would be half-wrong to say it started with Sigmund Freud. It did not really start,
         in America, 
         until the 1940s. And then again, it was less a start than the prevention of an end.
         <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip">The old 
            prejudices – women are animals, less than human, unable to think like men, born merely
            to 
            breed and serve men – were not so easily dispelled by the crusading feminists, by
            science 
            and education, and by the democratic spirit after all.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">women less than men</span></span> They merely reappeared in the forties, 
         in Freudian disguise. The feminine mystique derived its power from Freudian thought; for it 
         was an idea born of Freud, which led women, and those who studied them, to misinterpret
         
         their mothers’ frustrations, and their fathers’ and brothers’ and husbands’ resentments
         and 
         inadequacies, and their own emotions and possible choices in life.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         The new mystique is much more difficult for the modern woman to question than the
         old 
         prejudices, partly because the mystique is broadcast by the very agents of education
         and 
         social science that are supposed to be the chief enemies of prejudice, partly because
         the 
         very nature of Freudian thought makes it virtually invulnerable to question. How can an 
         educated American woman, who is not herself an analyst, presume to question a Freudian
         
         truth? She knows that Freud’s discovery of the unconscious workings of the mind was
         one 
         of the great breakthroughs in man’s pursuit of knowledge. She knows that the science
         built 
         on that discovery has helped many suffering men and women. She has been taught that
         only 
         after years of analytic training is one capable of understanding the meaning of Freudian
         
         truth. She may even know how the human mind unconsciously resists that truth. How
         can 
         she presume to tread the sacred ground where only analysts are allowed?
         </p>
      
      <p>
         No one can question the basic genius of Freud’s discoveries, not the contribution
         he has 
         made to our culture. Nor do I question the effectiveness of psychoanalysis as it is
         practised 
         today by Freudian or anti-Freudian. But I do question, from my own experience as a
         woman, 
         and my reporter’s knowledge of other women, the application of the Freudian theory
         of 
         femininity to women today. <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip">I question its use, not in therapy, but as it has filtered into the 
            lives of American women through the popular magazines and the opinions and 
            interpretations of so-called experts. I think much of the Freudian theory about women
            is 
            obsolescent, an obstacle to truth for women in America today, and a major cause of
            the 
            pervasive problem that has no name.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">freud and feminism</span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span></span>
         </p>
      
      <p>
         There are many paradoxes here. Freud’s concept of the superego helped to free man
         of the 
         tyranny of the ‘shoulds’, the tyranny of the past, which prevents the child from becoming
         an 
         adult. Yet Freudian thought helped create a new super-ego that paralyses educated
         modern 
         American women a new tyranny of the ‘shoulds’, which chains women to an old image,
         
         prohibits choice and growth, and denies them individual identity.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         Freudian psychology, with its emphasis on freedom from a repressive morality to achieve
         
         sexual fulfilment, was part of the ideology of women’s emancipation. <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip">The lasting American 
            image of the ‘emancipated woman’ is the flapper of the twenties: burdensome hair shingled
            
            off, knees bared, flaunting her new freedom to live in a studio in Greenwich Village
            or 
            Chicago’s near North Side, and drive a car, and drink, and smoke, and enjoy sexual
            
            adventures – or talk about them.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">the so-called emancipated woman</span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span></span> And yet today, for reasons far removed from the life of Freud 
         himself, Freudian thought has become the ideological bulwark of the sexual counter-
         revolution in America. Without Freud’s definition of the sexual nature of woman to give the 
         conventional image of femininity new authority, I do not think several generations
         of 
         educated, spirited American women would have been so easily diverted from the dawning
         
         realisation of who they were and what they could be.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         The concept ‘penis envy’, which Freud coined to describe a phenomenon he observed
         in 
         women – that is, in the middle-class women who were his patients in Vienna in the
         Victorian 
         era – was seized in this country in the 1940s as the literal explanation of all that
         was wrong 
         with American women. Many who preached the doctrine of endangered femininity reversing
         
         the movement of American women towards independence and identity, never knew its 
         Freudian origin. Many who seized on it – not the few psychoanalysts, but the many
         
         popularisers, sociologists, educators, ad-agency manipulators, magazine writers, child
         
         experts, marriage counsellors, ministers, cocktail-party authorities – could not have
         known 
         what Freud himself mean by penis envy. One needs only to know what Freud was describing,
         
         in those Victorian women, to see the fallacy in literally applying his theory of femininity
         to 
         women today. And one needs only to know why he described it in that way to understand
         
         that much of it is obsolescent contradicted by knowledge that is part of every social
         
         scientist’s thinking today, but was not yet known in Freud’s time.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         Freud, it is generally agreed, was a most perceptive and accurate observer of important
         
         problems of the human personality. But in describing and interpreting those problems,
         he 
         was a prisoner of his own culture. As he was creating a new framework for our culture,
         he 
         could not escape the framework of his own. Even his genius could not give him, then,
         the 
         knowledge of cultural processes which men who are not geniuses grow up with today.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         The physicist’s relativity, which in recent years has changed our whole approach to
         scientific 
         knowledge, is harder, and therefore easier to understand, than the social scientist’s
         
         relativity. It is not a slogan; but a fundamental statement about truth to say that
         no social 
         scientist can completely free himself from the prison of his own culture; he can only
         interpret 
         what he observes in the scientific framework of his own time. This is true even of
         the great 
         innovators. They cannot help but translate their revolutionary observations into language
         
         and rubrics that have been determined by the progress of science up until their time.
         Even 
         those discoveries that create new rubrics are relative to the vantage point of their
         creator.
         </p>
      
      <p> 
         Much of what Freud believed to be biological, instinctual, and changeless has been
         shown 
         by modern research to be a result of specific cultural causes. Much of what Freud
         described 
         as characteristic of universal human nature was merely characteristic of certain middle-
         class European men and women at the end of the nineteenth century.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         For instance, Freud’s theory of the sexual origin of neurosis stems from the fact
         that many of 
         the patients he first observed suffered from hysteria – and in those cases, he found
         sexual 
         repression to be the cause. Orthodox Freudians still profess to believe in the sexual
         origin of 
         all neurosis, and since they look for unconscious sexual memories in their patients,
         and 
         translate what they hear into sexual symbols, they still manage to find what they
         are looking 
         for.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         But the fact is, cases of hysteria as observed by Freud are much more rare today.
         In Freud’s 
         time, evidently, cultural hypocrisy forced the repression of sex. (Some social theorists
         even 
         suspect that the very absence of other concerns, in that dying Austrian empire, caused
         the 
         sexual preoccupation of Freud’s patients.) Certainly the fact that his culture denied
         sex 
         focused Freud’s interest on it. He then developed his theory by describing all the
         stages of 
         growth as sexual, fitting all the phenomena he observed into sexual rubrics.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         His attempt to translate all psychological phenomena into sexual terms, and to see
         all 
         problems of adult personality as the effect of childhood sexual fixations also stemmed,
         in 
         part, from his own background in medicine, and from the approach to causation implicit
         in 
         the scientific thought of his time. He had the same diffidence about dealing with
         
         psychological phenomena in their own terms which often plagues scientists of human
         
         behaviour. Something that could be described in physiological terms, linked to an
         organ of 
         anatomy, seemed more comfortable, solid, real, scientific, as he moved into the unexplored
         
         country of the unconscious mind. As his biographer, Ernest Jones, put it, he made
         a 
         ‘desperate effort to cling to the safety of cerebral anatomy’. Actually, he had the
         ability to see 
         and describe psychological phenomena so vividly that whether his concepts were given
         
         names borrowed from physiology, philosophy, or literature – penis envy, ego, Oedipus
         
         complex – they seemed to have a concrete physical reality. Psychological facts, as
         Jones 
         said, were ‘as real and concrete to him as metals are to a metallurgist’. This ability
         became a 
         source of great confusion as his concepts were passed down by lesser thinkers.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         The whole superstructure of Freudian theory rests on the strict determinism that 
         characterised the scientific thinking of the Victorian era. Determinism has been replaced
         
         today by a more complex view of cause and effect, in terms of physical processes and
         
         phenomena as well as psychological. In the new view, behavioural scientists do not need to 
         borrow language from physiology to explain psychological events, or give them pseudo-
         reality. Sexual phenomena are no more nor less real than, for instance, the phenomenon
         of 
         Shakespeare’s writing Hamlet, which cannot exactly be ‘explained’ by reducing it to
         sexual 
         terms. Even Freud himself cannot be explained by his own deterministic, physiological 
         blueprint though his biographer traces his genius, his ‘divine passion for knowledge’,
         to an 
         insatiable sexual curiosity, before the age of three, as to what went on between his
         mother 
         and father in the bedroom.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         Today biologists, social scientists, and increasing numbers of psychoanalysts see
         the need 
         or impulse to human growth as a primary human need, as basic as sex. The ‘oral’ and
         ‘anal’ 
         stages which Freud described in terms of sexual development the child gets his sexual
         
         pleasure first by mouth, from mother’s breast, then from his bowel movements – are
         now 
         seen as stages of human growth, influenced by cultural circumstances and parental
         
         attitudes as well as by sex. When the teeth grow, the mouth can bite as well as suck.
         Muscle 
         and brain also grow; the child becomes capable of control, mastery, understanding;
         and his 
         need to grow and learn, at five, twenty-five, or fifty, can be satisfied, denied,
         repressed, 
         atrophied, evoked, or discouraged by his culture as can his sexual needs. Child specialists
         
         today confirm Freud’s observation that problems between mother and child in the earliest
         
         stages are often played out in terms of eating; later in toilet training. And yet
         in America in 
         recent years there has been a noticeable decline in children’s ‘eating problems’.
         Has the 
         child’s instinctual development changed? Impossible if, by definition, the oral stage
         is 
         instinctual. Or has the culture removed eating as a focus for early childhood problems
         – by 
         the American emphasis on permissiveness in child care, or simply by the fact that
         in our 
         affluent society food has become less a cause for anxiety in mothers? Because of Freud’s
         
         own influence on our culture, educated parents are usually careful not to put conflict-
         producing pressures on toilet training. Such conflicts are more likely to occur today
         as the 
         child learns to talk or read.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         In the 1940s, American social scientists and psychoanalysts had already begun to 
         reinterpret Freudian concepts in the light of their growing cultural awareness. But,
         curiously, 
         this did not prevent their literal application of Freud’s theory of femininity to
         American 
         women.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         The fact is that to Freud, even more than to the magazine editor on Madison Avenue
         today, 
         women were a strange, inferior, less-than-human species. He saw them as childlike
         dolls, 
         who existed in terms only of man’s love, to love man and serve his needs. It was the
         same 
         kind of unconscious solipsism that made man for many centuries see the sun only as
         a bright 
         object that revolved around the earth. <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip">Freud grew up with this attitude built in by his culture 
            – not only the culture of Victorian Europe, but that Jewish culture in which men said
            the daily 
            prayer: ‘I thank Thee, Lord, that Thou hast not created me a woman,’ and women prayed
            in 
            submission: ‘I thank Thee, Lord, that Thou has created me according to Thy will.’<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">religous sexism</span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span></span>
         </p>
      
      <p>
         Freud’s mother was the pretty, docile bride of a man twice her age; his father ruled
         the family 
         with an autocratic authority traditional in Jewish families during those centuries
         of 
         persecution when the fathers were seldom able to establish authority in the outside
         world. 
         His mother adored the young Sigmund, her first son, and thought him mystically destined
         for 
         greatness; she seemed to exist only to gratify his every wish. His own memories of
         the sexual 
         jealousy he felt for his father, whose wishes she also gratified, were the basis of
         his theory of 
         the Oedipus complex. With his wife, as with his mother and sisters, his needs, his desires, 
         his wishes, were the sun around which the household revolved. When the noise of his
         sisters’ 
         practising the piano interrupted his studies, ‘the piano disappeared,’ Anna Freud
         recalled 
         years later, ‘and with it all opportunities for his sisters to become musicians.’
         </p>
      
      <p>
         Freud did not see this attitude as a problem, or cause for any problem, in women.
         It was 
         woman’s nature to be ruled by man and her sickness to envy him. Freud’s letters to
         Martha, 
         his future wife, written during the four years of their engagement (1882-6) have the
         fond, 
         patronising sound of Torvald in A Doll’s House, scolding Nora for her pretences at
         being 
         human. Freud was beginning to probe the secrets of the human brain in the laboratory
         at 
         Vienna; Martha was to wait, his ‘sweet child’, in her mother’s custody for four years,
         until he 
         could come and fetch her. From these letters one can see that to him her identity
         was 
         defined as child-housewife, even when she was no longer a child and not yet a housewife.
         </p>       
      
      <p>
         
         <span class="tooltip power-tooltip">Tables and chairs, beds, mirrors, a clock to remind the happy couple of the passage
            of time, 
            an armchair for an hour’s pleasant daydreaming, carpets to help the housewife keep
            the 
            floors clean, linen tied with pretty ribbons in the cupboard and dresses of the latest
            fashion 
            and hats with artificial flowers, pictures on the wall, glasses for everyday and others
            for wine 
            and festive occasions plates and dishes ... and the sewing table and the cosy lamp,
            and 
            everything must be kept in good order or else the housewife who has divided her heart
            into 
            little bits, one for each piece of furniture, will begin to fret. And this object
            must bear witness 
            to the serious work that holds the household together, and that object, to a feeling
            for beauty, 
            to dear friends one likes to remember, to cities one has visited, to hours one wants
            to recall. 
            ... Are we to hang our hearts on such little things? Yes, and without hesitation.
            ...<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">women as homemakers</span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span></span>
         
         </p>
      
      <p>
         
         <span class="tooltip power-tooltip">I know, after all, how sweet you are, how you can turn a house into a paradise, how
            you will 
            share in my interests, how gay yet painstaking you will be. I will let you rule the
            house as 
            much as you wish, and you will reward me with your sweet love and by rising above
            all those 
            weaknesses for which women are so often despised. As far as my activities allow, we
            shall 
            read together what we want to learn, and I will initiate you into things which could
            not interest 
            a girl as long as she is unfamiliar with her future companion and his occupation ...<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">male/female roles in the home</span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span></span>
         
         </p>
      
      <p>
         
         <h3>On 5 July 1885,</h3> he scolds her for continuing to visit Elise, a friend who evidently is less than
         
         demure in her regard for men:
         </p>
      
      <p>
         
         <span class="tooltip power-tooltip">What is the good of your feeling that you are now so mature that this relationship
            can’t do 
            you any harm? . . . You are far too soft, and this is something I have got to correct,
            for what 
            one of us does will also be charged to the other’s account. You are my precious little
            woman 
            and even if you make a mistake, you are none the less so.... But you know all this,
            my sweet 
            child ...<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">husband as a father figure</span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span></span>
         
         </p>
      
      <p>
         The Victorian mixture of chivalry and condescension which is found in Freud’s scientific
         
         theories about women is explicit in a letter he wrote on 
         <h3>5 November 1883</h3> deriding John 
         Stuart Mill’s views on ‘female emancipation and the woman’s question altogether’.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         
         In his whole presentation, it never emerges that women are different beings – we will
         not say 
         lesser, rather the opposite from men. He finds the suppression of women an analogy
         to that 
         of Negroes. Any girl, even without a suffrage or legal competence, whose hand a man kisses 
         and for whose love he is prepared to dare all, could have set him right. It is really
         a stillborn
         thought to send women into the struggle for existence exactly as man. If, for instance,
         I 
         imagined my gentle sweet girl as a competitor, it would only end in my telling her,
         as I did 
         seventeen months ago, that I am fond of her and that I implore her to withdraw from
         the strife 
         into the calm, uncompetitive activity of my home. It is possible that changes in upbringing
         
         may suppress all a woman’s tender attributes, needful of protection and yet so victorious,
         
         and that she can then earn a livelihood like men. It is also possible that in such an event one 
         would not be justified in mourning the passing away of the most delightful thing the
         world 
         can offer us – our ideal of womanhood. I believe that all reforming action in law
         and 
         education would break down in front of the fact that, long before the age at which
         a man can 
         earn a position in society, Nature has determined woman’s destiny through beauty,
         charm, 
         and sweetness. Law and custom have much to give women that has been withheld from
         
         them, but the position of women will surely be what it is: in youth an adored darling
         and in 
         mature years a loved wife.
         
         </p>
      
      <p>
         Since all of Freud’s theories rested, admittedly, on his own penetrating, unending
         psychoanalysis
         of himself, and since sexuality was the focus of all his theories, certain 
         paradoxes about his own sexuality seem pertinent. His writings, as many scholars have
         
         noted, give much more attention to infantile sexuality than to its mature expression.
         His chief 
         biographer, Jones, pointed out that he was, even for those times, exceptionally chaste,
         
         puritanical, and moralistic. In his own life he was relatively uninterested in sex.
         There were 
         only the adoring mother of his youth, at sixteen a romance that existed purely in
         fantasy with 
         a girl named Gisele, and his engagement to Martha at twenty-six. The nine months when
         they 
         both lived in Vienna were not too happy because she was, evidently, uneasy and afraid
         of 
         him, but separated by a comfortable distance for four years, there was a grande passion
         of 
         900 love letters. After their marriage, the passion seems to have quickly disappeared,
         though 
         his biographers note that he was too rigid a moralist to seek sexual satisfaction
         outside of 
         marriage. The only woman on whom, as an adult, he ever focused the violent passions
         of 
         love and hate of which he was capable was Martha, during the early years of their
         
         engagement. After that, such emotions were focused on men. As Jones, his respectful
         
         biographer, said: ‘Freud’s deviation from the average in this respect, as well as his 
         pronounced mental bisexuality, may well have influenced his theoretical views to some
         
         extent.’
         </p>
      
      <p>
         Less reverent biographers, and even Jones himself, point out that when one considers
         
         Freud’s theories in terms of his own life, one is reminded of the puritanical old
         maid who sees 
         sex everywhere. It is interesting to note that his main complaint about his 
         docile Hausfrau was that she was not ‘docile’ enough – and yet, in interesting ambivalence,
         
         that she was not at her ease with him, that she was not able to be a ‘comrade-in-arms’.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         
         But, as Freud was painfully to discover, she was not at heart docile and she had a
         firmness 
         of character that did not readily lend itself to being moulded. Her personality was
         fully 
         developed and well integrated: it would well deserve the psychoanalyst’s highest 
         compliment of being ‘normal’.
         
         </p>
      
      <p>
         One gets a glimpse of Freud’s ‘intention, never to be fulfilled, to mould her to his
         perfect 
         image’, when he wrote her that she must ‘become quite young, a sweetheart, only a
         week 
         old, who will quickly lose every trace of tartness’. But he then reproaches himself:
         </p>
      
      <p>
         
         The loved one is not to become a toy doll, but a good comrade who still has a sensible
         word 
         left when the strict master has come to the end of his wisdom. And I have been trying
         to 
         smash her frankness so that she should reserve opinion until she is sure of mine.
         
         </p>
      
      <p>
         As Jones pointed out, Freud was pained when she did not meet his chief test – complete
         
         identification with himself, his opinions, his feelings, and his intentions. She was
         not really 
         his unless he could perceive his “stamp” on her. Freud even admitted that it was boring
         if 
         one could find nothing in the other person to put right. And he stresses again that
         Freud’s 
         love could be set free and displayed only under very favourable conditions. ... Martha
         was 
         probably afraid of her masterful lover and she would commonly take refuge in silence.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         So, he eventually wrote her, ‘I renounce what I demanded. I do not need a comrade-in-arms, 
         such as I hoped to make you into. I am strong enough to fight alone.... You remain
         for me a 
         precious sweet, loved one.’ Thus evidently ended ‘the only time in his life when such 
         emotions [love and hate] centred on a woman’.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         The marriage was conventional, but without that passion. As Jones described it:
         </p>
      
      <p>
         There can have been few more successful marriages. Martha certainly made an excellent
         
         wife and mother. She was an admirable manager – the rare kind of woman who could keep
         
         servants indefinitely – but she was never the kind of Hausfrau who put things before
         people. 
         Her husband’s comfort and convenience always ranked first.... It was not to be expected
         that 
         she should follow the roaming flights of his imagination any more than most of the
         world 
         could.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         She was as devoted to his physical needs as the most doting Jewish mother, organising
         each 
         meal on a rigid schedule to fit the convenience of der Papa. But she never dreamed
         of 
         sharing his life as an equal. Nor did Freud consider her a fit guardian for their
         children, 
         especially of their education, in case of his death. He himself recalls a dream in
         which he 
         forgets to call for her at the theatre. His associations ‘imply that forgetting may
         be 
         permissible in unimportant matters’.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         That limitless subservience of woman taken for granted by Freud’s culture, the very
         lack of 
         opportunity for independent action or personal identity, seems often to have generated
         that 
         uneasiness and inhibition in the wife, and that irritation in the husband, which characterised
         
         Freud’s marriage. As Jones summed it up, Freud’s attitude towards women ‘could probably
         
         be called rather old-fashioned, and it would be easy to ascribe this to his social
         environment 
         and the period in which he grew up rather than to any personal factors’.
         </p>
      
      <p>
          
         Whatever his intellectual opinions may have been in the matter, there are many indications
         
         in his writing and correspondence of his emotional attitude. It would certainly be going too 
         far to say that he regarded the male sex as the lords of creation, for there was no
         tinge of 
         arrogance or superiority in his nature, but it might perhaps be fair to describe his
         view of the 
         female sex as having as their main function to be ministering angels to the needs
         and 
         comforts of men. His letters and his love choice make it plain that he had only one
         type of 
         sexual object in his mind, a gentle feminine one....
         
         </p>
      
      <p>
         
         There is little doubt that Freud found the psychology of women more enigmatic than
         that of 
         men. He said once to Marie Bonaparte: ‘The great question that has never been answered
         
         and which I have not yet been able to answer, despite my thirty years of research
         into the 
         feminine soul, is, what does a woman want?’
         
         </p>
      
      <p>
         Jones also remarked:
         </p>
      
      <p>
         
         Freud was also interested in another type of woman, of a more intellectual and perhaps
         
         masculine cast. Such women several times played a part in his life, accessory to his
         men 
         friends though of a finer calibre, but they had no erotic attraction for him.
         
         </p>
      
      <p>
         These women included his sister-in-law, Minna Bernays, much more intelligent and 
         independent than Martha, and later women analysts or adherents of the psychoanalytic
         movement:
         Marie Bonaparte, Joan Riviere, Lou Andreas-Salomé. There is no suspicion, 
         however, from either idolators or hostile biographers that he ever sought sexual satisfaction
         
         outside his marriage. Thus it would seem that sex was completely divorced from his
         human 
         passions, which he expressed throughout the productive later years of his long life
         in his 
         thought and, to a lesser extent, in friendships with men and those women he considered
         his 
         equals, and thus ‘masculine’. He once said: ‘I always find it uncanny when I can’t
         understand 
         someone in terms of myself.’
         </p>
      
      <p>
         The motive force of woman’s personality, in Freud’s theory, was her envy of the penis,
         which 
         causes her to feel as much depreciated in her own eyes ‘as in the eyes of the boy,
         and later 
         perhaps of the man’, and leads in normal femininity, to the wish for the penis of
         her husband, 
         a wish that is never really fulfilled until she possesses a penis through giving birth
         to a son. 
         In short, she is merely an homme manque, a man with something missing. As the eminent 
         psychoanalyst Clara Thompson put it: ‘Freud never became free from the Victorian attitude 
         towards women. He accepted as an inevitable part of the fate of being a woman the
         
         limitation of outlook and life of the Victorian era.... The castration complex and penis envy 
         concepts, two of the most basic ideas in his whole thinking, are postulated on the
         
         assumption that women are biologically inferior to men.’
         </p>
      
      <p>
         What did Freud mean by the concept of penis envy? For even those who realize that
         Freud 
         could not escape his culture do not question that he reported truly what he observed
         within 
         it.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         
         In the boy the castration-complex is formed after he has learned from the sight of
         the female 
         genitals that the sexual organ which he prizes so highly is not a necessary part of
         every 
         woman’s body . . . and thenceforward he comes under the influence of castration-anxiety,
         
         which supplies the strongest motive force for his further development. The castration-
         complex in the girl, as well, is started by the sight of the genital organs of the
         other sex. She
         immediately notices the difference and, it must be admitted, its significance. She
         feels 
         herself at a great disadvantage, and often declares that she would like to have something
         like 
         that too and falls a victim to penis envy, which leaves ineradicable traces on her
         
         development and character-formation, and even in the most favourable instances, is
         not 
         overcome without a great expenditure of mental energy That the girl recognises the
         fact that 
         she lacks a penis does not mean that she accepts its absence lightly. On the contrary,
         she 
         clings for a long rime to the desire to get something like it, and believes in that
         possibility for 
         an extraordinary number of years and even at a time when her knowledge of reality
         has long 
         since led her to abandon the fulfilment of this desire as being quite unattainable,
         analysis 
         proves that it still persists in the unconscious, and retains a considerable charge
         of energy. 
         
         </p>
      
      <p>
         The desire after all to obtain the penis for which she so much longs may even contribute
         to 
         the motives that impel a grown-up woman to come to analysis, and what she quite 
         reasonably expects to get from analysis, such as the capacity to pursue an intellectual
         
         career, can often be recognised as a sublimated modification of this repressed wish.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         ‘The discovery of her castration is a turning-point in the life of the girl,’ Freud went on to say. 
         ‘She is wounded in her self-love by the unfavourable comparison with the boy, who
         is so 
         much better equipped.’ Her mother, and all women, are depreciated in her own eyes, as they 
         are depreciated for the same reason in the eyes of man. This either leads to complete
         sexual 
         inhibition and neurosis, or to a ‘masculinity complex’ in which she refuses to give
         up ‘phallic’ 
         activity (that is, ‘activity such as is usually characteristic of the male’) or to
         ‘normal
         femininity’, in which the girl’s own impulses to activity are repressed, and she turns
         to her 
         father in her wish for the penis. ‘The feminine situation is, however, only established
         when 
         the wish for the penis is replaced by the wish for a child – the child taking the
         place of the 
         penis.’ When she played with dolls, this ‘was not really an expression of her femininity’,
         since 
         this was activity, not passivity. The ‘strongest feminine wish’, the desire for a
         penis, finds real 
         fulfilment only ‘if the child is a little boy, who brings the longed-for penis with
         him.... The 
         mother can transfer to her son all the ambition she has had to suppress in herself,
         and she 
         can hope to get from him the satisfaction of all that has remained to her of her masculinity
         
         complex.’
         </p>
      
      <p>
         But her inherent deficiency, and the resultant penis envy, is so hard to overcome
         that the 
         woman’s super-ego – her conscience, ideals – are never as completely formed as a man’s:
         
         ‘Women have but little sense of justice, and this is no doubt connected with the 
         preponderance of envy in their mental life.’ For the same reason, women’s interests
         in 
         society are weaker than those of men, and ‘their capacity for the sublimation of their
         
         instincts is less’. Finally, Freud cannot refrain from mentioning ‘an impression which
         one 
         receives over and over again in analytical work’ – that not even psychoanalysis can
         do much 
         for women, because of the inherent deficiency of femininity.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         A man of about thirty seems a youthful, and, in a sense, an incompletely developed
         
         individual, of whom we expect that he will be able to make good use of the possibilities
         of 
         development, which analysis lays open to him. But a woman of about the same age, 
         frequently staggers us by her psychological rigidity and unchangeability.... There
         are no 
         paths open to her for further development; it is as though the whole process had been
         gone 
         through and remained unaccessible to influence for the future; as though, in fact,
         the 
         difficult development which leads to femininity had exhausted all the possibilities
         of the 
         individual ... even when we are successful in removing the sufferings by solving her
         neurotic 
         conflict.
         </p>
      
      <p> 
         <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip">What was he really reporting? If one interprets ‘penis envy’ as other Freudian concepts
            have 
            been reinterpreted, in the light of our new knowledge that what Freud believed to
            be 
            biological was often a cultural reaction, one sees simply that Victorian culture gave
            women 
            many reasons to envy men: the same conditions, in fact, that the feminists fought
            against. If 
            a woman who was denied the freedom, the status, and the pleasures that men enjoyed
            wished secretly that she could have these things, in the shorthand of the dream, she
            might 
            wish herself a man and see herself with that one thing which made men unequivocally
            
            different – the penis. She would, of course, have to learn to keep her envy, her anger,
            hidden: 
            to play the child, the doll, the toy, for her destiny depended on charming man. But
            
            underneath, it might still fester, sickening her for love. If she secretly despised
            herself, and 
            envied man for all she was not, she might go through the motions of love, or even
            feel a 
            slavish adoration, but would she be capable of free and joyous love? You cannot explain
            
            away woman’s envy of man, or her contempt for herself, as mere refusal to accept her
            sexual
            deformity, unless you think that a woman, by nature, is a being inferior to man. Then,
            of  
            course, her wish to be equal is neurotic.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">feminist look at penis envy</span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span></span>
         </p>
      
      <p>
         It is recognised now that Freud never gave proper attention, even in man, to growth
         of the
         ego or self: ‘the impulse to master, control or come to self-fulfilling terms with
         the 
         environment’. Analysts who have freed themselves from Freud’s bias and joined other
         
         behavioural scientists in studying the human need to grow, are beginning to believe
         that this 
         is the basic human need, and that interference with it, in any dimension, is the source
         of 
         psychic trouble. The sexual is only one dimension of the human potential. <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip">Freud saw women 
            only in terms of their sexual relationship with men. But in all those women in whom
            he saw 
            sexual problems there must have been very severe problems of blocked growth, growth
            short 
            of full human identity – an immature, incomplete self. Society as it was then, by
            explicit 
            denial of education and independence, prevented women from realising their full potential,
            
            or from attaining those interests and ideals that might have stimulated their growth.
            Freud 
            reported these deficiencies, but could only explain them as the toll of ‘penis envy’.
            He saw 
            that women who secretly hungered to be man’s equal would not enjoy being his object;
            and 
            in this, he seemed to be describing a fact. But when he dismissed woman’s yearning
            for 
            equality as ‘penis envy’, was he not merely stating his own view that women could
            never 
            really be man’s equal, any more than she could wear his penis?<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">failiures of the penis envy theory</span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span></span>
         </p>
      
      <p>
         Freud was not concerned with changing society, but in helping man, and woman, adjust
         to 
         it. Thus he tells of a case of a middle-aged spinster whom he succeeded in freeing
         from a 
         symptom-complex that prevented her from taking any part in life for fifteen years.
         Freed of 
         these symptoms she ‘plunged into a whirl of activity in order to develop her talents,
         which 
         were by no means small, and derive a little appreciation, enjoyment, and success from
         life 
         before it was too late’. But all her attempts ended when she saw that there was no
         place for 
         her. Since she could no longer relapse into her neurotic symptoms, she began to have
         
         accidents; she sprained her ankle, her foot, her hand. When this also was analysed,
         ‘instead 
         of accidents, she contracted on the same occasions slight illnesses, such as catarrh,
         sore 
         throat, influenzal conditions or rheumatic swellings, until at last, when she made
         up her 
         mind to resign herself to inactivity, the whole business came to an end).
         </p>
      
      <p>
         <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip">Today, when women’s equal intelligence has been proved by science, when their equal
            
            capacity in every sphere except sheer muscular strength has been demonstrated, a theory
            
            explicitly based on woman’s natural inferiority would seem as ridiculous as it is
            hypocritical. 
            But that remains the basis of Freud’s theory of women, despite the mask of timeless
            sexual 
            truth which disguises its elaborations today.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">advocating for equality, failiures of Freud to do so</span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span></span>
         </p>
      
      <p>
         <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip">Because Freud’s followers could only see woman in the image defined by Freud – inferior,
            
            childish, helpless, with no possibility of happiness unless she adjusted to being
            man’s 
            passive object – they wanted to help women get rid of their suppressed envy, their
            neurotic 
            desire to be equal. They wanted to help women find sexual fulfilment as women, by
            affirming
            their natural inferiority.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">claiming Freud promoted biological inferiority</span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span></span>
         </p>
      
      <p>
         But society, which defined that inferiority, had changed drastically by the time Freud’s
         
         followers transposed bodily to twentieth century America the causes as well as the
         cures of 
         the condition Freud called penis envy. In the light of our new knowledge of cultural processes 
         and of human growth, one would assume that women who grew up with the rights and 
         freedom and education that Victorian women were denied would be different from the
         
         women Freud tried to cure. One would assume that they would have much less reason
         to 
         envy man. But Freud was interpreted to American woman in such curiously literal terms
         that 
         the concept of penis envy acquired a mystical life of its own, as if it existed quite
         independent 
         of the women in whom it had been observed. The real injustices life held for women
         a century  
         ago, compared to men, were dismissed as mere rationalisations of penis envy. And the
         real 
         opportunities life offered to women now, compared to women then, were forbidden in
         the 
         name of penis envy.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         The literal application of Freudian theory can be seen in these passages from Modern
         
         Woman: The Lost Sex, by the psychoanalyst Marynia Farnham and the sociologist Ferdinand
         
         Lundberg, which was paraphrased ad nauseam in the magazines and in marriage courses,
         
         until most of its statements became a part of the conventional, accepted truth of
         our time. 
         Equating feminism with penis envy, they stated categorically:
         </p>
      
      <p>
         
         <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip">Feminism, despite the external validity of its political programme and most (not all)
            of its 
            social programme, was at its core a deep illness. ... The dominant direction of feminine
            
            training and development today ... discourages just those traits necessary to the
            attainment 
            of sexual pleasure: receptivity and passiveness, a willingness to accept dependence
            without 
            fear or resentment, with a deep inwardness and readiness for the final goal of sexual
            life 
            impregnation.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">feminism is an illness</span></span>
         
         </p>
      
      <p>
         
         <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip">It is not in the capacity of the female organism to attain feelings of well-being
            by the route of 
            male achievement.... It was the error of the feminists that they attempted to put
            women on 
            the essentially male road of exploit, off the female road of nurture....<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">male and female fullfillment is unequal</span></span>
         
         </p>
      
      <p>
         
         <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip">The psychosocial rule that begins to take form, then, is this: the more educated the
            woman 
            is, the greater chance there is of sexual disorder, more or less severe. The greater
            the 
            disordered sexuality in a given group of women, the fewer children do they have....
            Fate has 
            granted them the boon importuned by Lady Macbeth; they have been unsexed, not only
            in 
            the matter of giving birth, but in their feelings of pleasure.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">educated women lose their womanhood</span></span>
         
         </p>
      
      <p>
         Thus Freud’s popularisers embedded his core of unrecognised traditional prejudice
         against 
         women ever deeper in pseudo-scientific cement. Freud was well aware of his own tendency
         
         to build an enormous body of deductions from a single fact – a fertile and creative
         method, 
         but a two-edged sword, if the significance of that single fact was misinterpreted.
         Freud wrote 
         Jung in 1909:
         </p>
      
      <p>
         
         Your surmise that after my departure my errors might be adored as holy relics amused
         me 
         enormously, but I don’t believe it. On the contrary, I think that my followers will
         hasten to 
         demolish as swiftly as possible everything that is not safe and sound in what I leave
         behind.
         
         </p>
      
      <p>
         But on the subject of women, Freud’s followers not only compounded his errors, but,
         in their 
         tortuous attempt to fit their observations of real women into his theoretical framework,
         
         closed questions that he himself had left open. Thus, for instance, Helene Deutsch,
         whose 
         definitive two-volume The Psychology of Woman – A Psychoanalytical 
         Interpretation appeared in 1944, is not able to trace all women’s troubles to penis
         envy as 
         such. So she does what even Freud found unwise, and equates ‘femininity’ with ‘passivity’,
         
         and ‘masculinity’ with ‘activity’, not only in the sexual sphere, but in all spheres
         of life.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         
         <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip">While fully recognising that woman’s position is subjected to external influence,
            I venture to 
            say that the fundamental identities ‘feminine-passive’ and ‘masculine-active’ assert
            
            themselves in all known cultures and races, in various forms and various quantitative
            
            proportions.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">feminie passivity, masculine activity</span></span>
         
         </p>
      
      <p>
         
         <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip">Very often a woman resists this characteristic given her by nature and in spite of
            certain 
            advantages she derives from it, displays many modes of behaviour that suggest that
            she is 
            not entirely content with her own constitution . . . the expression of this dissatisfaction,
            
            combined with attempts to remedy it, result in woman’s ‘masculinity complex.’<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">idea of a masculinity complex</span></span>
         
         </p>
      
      <p>
         <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip">The ‘masculinity complex’, as Dr Deutsch refines it, stems directly from the ‘female
            
            castration complex’. Thus, anatomy is still destiny, woman is still an homme manque.
            Of 
            course, Dr Deutsch mentions in passing that ‘With regard to the girl, however, the
            
            environment exerts an inhibiting influence as regards both her aggressions and her
            activity.’ 
            So, penis envy, deficient female anatomy, and society ‘all seem to work together to
            produce 
            femininity’.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">female anatomy as deficient</span></span>
         </p>
      
      <p>
         <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip">‘Normal’ femininity is achieved, however, only in so far as the woman finally renounces
            all 
            active goals of her own, all her own ‘originality’, to identify and fulfil herself
            through the 
            activities and goals of husband, or son. This process can be sublimated in non-sexual
            ways 
            – as, for instance, the woman who does the basic research for her male superior’s
            
            discoveries. The daughter who devotes her life to her father is also making a satisfactory
            
            feminine ‘ sublimation’.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">femininity in submission</span></span> <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip">Only activity of her own or originality, on a basis of equality, deserves 
            the opprobrium of ‘masculinity complex’. This brilliant feminine follower of Freud
            states 
            categorically that the women who by 1944 in America had achieved eminence by activity
            of 
            their own in various fields had done so at the expense of their feminine fulfilment.
            She will 
            mention no names, but they all suffer from the ‘masculinity complex’.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">indipendence equates to masculinity</span></span>
         </p>
      
      <p>
         How could a girl or woman who was not a psychoanalyst discount such ominous 
         pronouncements, which, in the forties, suddenly began to pour out from all the oracles
         of 
         sophisticated thought?
         </p>
      
      <p>
         It would be ridiculous to suggest that the way Freudian theories were used to brainwash
         two 
         generations of educated American women was part of a psychoanalytic conspiracy. It
         was 
         done by well-meaning popularisers and inadvertent distorters; by orthodox converts
         and 
         bandwagon faddists; by those who suffered and those who cured and those who turned
         
         suffering to profit; and, above all, by a congruence of forces and needs peculiar
         to the 
         American people at that particular time. In fact, the literal acceptance in the American
         
         culture of Freud’s theory of feminine fulfilment was in tragi-comic contrast to the
         personal 
         struggle of many American psychoanalysts to reconcile what they saw in their women
         
         patients with Freudian theory.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         A New York analyst, one of the last trained at Freud’s own Psychoanalytic Institute
         in Vienna, 
         told me:
         </p>
      
      <p>
         
         <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip">
            For twenty years now in analysing American women, I have found myself again and again
            in 
            the position of having to superimpose Freud’s theory of femininity on the psychic
            life of my 
            patients in a way that I was not willing to do. I have come to the conclusion that
            penis envy 
            simply does not exist. I have seen women who are completely expressive, sexually,
            vaginally, 
            and yet who are not mature, integrated, fulfilled. I had a woman patient on the couch
            for 
            nearly two years before I could face her real problem – that it was not enough for
            her to be 
            just a housewife and mother. One day she had a dream that she was teaching a class.
            I could 
            not dismiss the powerful yearning of this housewife’s dream, as penis envy. It was
            the 
            expression of her own need for mature self-fulfilment. I told her: ‘I can’t analyse
            this dream 
            away. You must do something about it.’<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">movement away from penis envy, individual rights for women</span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span></span>
         
         </p>
      
      <p>
         <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip">
            This same man teaches the young analysts in his postgraduate clinic at a leading Eastern
            
            university: ‘If the patient doesn’t fit the book, throw away the book, and listen
            to the patient.’<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">listening to each woman as an individual</span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span></span>
         <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip">But many analysts threw the book at their patients and Freudian theories became accepted
            
            fact even among women who never lay down on an analyst’s couch, but only knew what
            they 
            read or heard. To this day, it has not penetrated to the popular culture that the
            pervasive 
            growing frustration of American women may not be a matter of feminine sexuality. Freud
            was 
            accepted so quickly and completely at the end of the forties that for over a decade
            no one 
            even questioned the race of the educated American woman back to the home. When 
            questions finally had to be asked because something was obviously going wrong, they
            were 
            asked so completely within the Freudian framework that only one answer was possible:
            
            education, freedom, rights are wrong for women.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">harms of Freudian theory on women</span></span>
         </p>
      
      <p>
         The uncritical acceptance of Freudian doctrine in America was caused, at least in
         part, by 
         the very relief it provided from uncomfortable questions about objective realities.
         After the 
         depression, after the war, Freudian psychology became much more than a science of
         human 
         behaviour, a therapy for the suffering. It became an all-embracing American ideology,
         a new 
         religion. It provided a convenient escape from the atom bomb, McCarthy, all the 
         disconcerting problems that might spoil the taste of steaks, and cars and colour television
         
         and backyard swimming pools. And if the new psychological religion – which made a
         virtue 
         of sex, removed all sin from private vice, and cast suspicion on high aspirations
         of the mind 
         and spirit – had a more devastating personal effect on women than men, nobody planned
         it 
         that way.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip">But the practice of psychoanalysis as a therapy was not primarily responsible for
            the 
            feminine mystique. It was the creation of writers and editors in the mass media, ad-agency
            
            motivation researchers, and behind them the popularisers and translators of Freudian
            
            thought in the colleges and universities. Freudian and pseudo-Freudian theories settled
            
            everywhere, like fine volcanic ash. Sociology, anthropology, education, even the study
            of 
            history and literature became permeated and transfigured by Freudian thought. The
            most 
            zealous missionaries of the feminine mystique were the functionalists, who seized
            hasty 
            gulps of pre-digested Freud to start their new departments of ‘Marriage and Family-Life
            
            Education’. The functional courses in marriage taught American college girls how to
            ‘play the 
            role’ of woman – the old role became a new science. Related movements outside the
            
            colleges – parent education, child-study groups, prenatal maternity study groups and
            
            mental-health education – spread the new psychological super-ego throughout the land,
            
            replacing bridge and canasta as an entertainment for educated young wives. And this
            
            Freudian super-ego worked for growing numbers of young and impressionable American
            
            women as Freud said the super-ego works – to perpetuate the past.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">causes for feminist theory</span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span></span>
         </p>
      
      <p>
         
         Mankind never lives completely in the present; the ideologies of the super-ego perpetuate
         
         the past, the traditions of the race and the people, which yield but slowly to the
         influence of 
         the present and to new developments, and, so long as they work through the super-ego,
         play 
         an important part in man’s life, quite independently of economic conditions.
         
         </p>
      
      <p>
         <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip">The feminine mystique, elevated by Freudian theory into a scientific religion, sounded
            a 
            single, over-protective, life-restricting, future-deriving note for women. Girls who
            grew up 
            playing baseball, baby-sitting, mastering geometry almost independent enough, almost
            
            resourceful enough, to meet the problems of the fission-fusion era – were told by
            the most 
            advanced thinkers of our time to go back and live their lives as if they were Noras,
            restricted 
            to the doll’s house by Victorian prejudice. And their own respect and awe for the
            authority of 
            science – anthropology, sociology, psychology share that authority now – kept them
            from 
            questioning the feminine mystique.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">challenging the social norms</span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span></span>
         </p>
      </body>
</html>