<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../style.css"/>
      <title>There was a young woman who swallowed a lie</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <nav>
         <ul>
            <li><a href="../index.html">Main</a></li>
            <li><a href="../methodology.html">Methodology</a></li>
            <li><a href="../texts.html">Texts</a></li>
            <li><a href="../analysis.html">Analysis</a></li>
         </ul>
      </nav>
      <nav class="link-column">
         <div class="textNav">
            <ul>
               <li><a href="../wave3.html">Overview</a></li>
               <li><a href="WomenHating.xhtml">Women Hating</a></li>
               <li><a href="ThereWasAYoungWoman.xhtml">There was a young woman who swallowed a lie</a></li>
               <li><a href="FuriesLesbian.xhtml">The Furies: Lesbian/Feminist Monthly</a></li>
               <li><a href="TheDeathOfGod.xhtml">After The Death of God The Father</a></li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </nav>
      <h1>There was a young woman who swallowed a lie</h1>
      
      <p>
          THERE WAS A YOUNG WOMAN WHO SWALLOWED A LIE, We all know why she
         swallowed that lie, PERHAPS SHE'LL DIE! 
         </p>
      
      <p>
          THERE WAS A YOUNG WOMAN WHO SWALLOWED A RULE, <span class="tooltip power-tooltip">"Live to serve others"<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">patriarchy</span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span></span>, she learned it in
         school. She swallowed the rule to go with the lie, We all know why she swallowed that
         lie, PERHAPS SHE'LL DIE! 
         </p>
      
      <p>
          THERE WAS A YOUNG WOMAN WHO SWALLOWED SOME FLUFF; Lipstick &amp;
         candy &amp; powder &amp; puff -- She swallowed the FLUFF to sweeten the rule, She
         swallowed the rule to go with the lie, We all know why she swallowed that lie, PERHAPS
         SHE'LL DIE! 
         </p>
      
      <p>
          THERE WAS A YOUNG WOMAN WHO SWALLOWED A LINE, <span class="tooltip power-tooltip"> "I like 'em dumb baby, you suit me fine." <span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">patriarchy</span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span></span>
         She swallowed the line to go with the FLUFF She swallowed the FLUFF to sweeten the
         rule,
         She swallowed the rule to go with the lie, We all know why she swallowed that lie,
         PERHAPS SHE'LL DIE! 
         </p>
      
      <p>
         
         <span class="tooltip power-tooltip"> THERE WAS A YOUNG WOMAN WHO SWALLOWED A PILL,
            Might have said, "No," but she hadn't the will. <span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">patriarchy</span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span></span> She swallowed the
         pill to go with the line, She swallowed the line to go with the FLUFF She swallowed
         the
         FLUFF to sweeten the rule, She swallowed the rule to go with the lie, We all know
         why
         she swallowed that lie, PERHAPS SHE'LL DIE! 
         </p>
      
      <p>
          THERE WAS A YOUNG WOMAN WHO SWALLOWED A RING, <span class="tooltip power-tooltip">Looked like a princess
            but felt like a thing. <span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">patriarchy</span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span></span> She swallowed the ring to make up for the pill, She swallowed the
         pill to go with the line, She swallowed the line to go with the FLUFF She swallowed
         the
         FLUFF to sweeten the rule, She swallowed the rule to go with the lie, We all know
         why
         she swallowed that lie... PERHAPS SHE'LL DIE! 
         </p>
      
      <p>
          THERE WAS A YOUNG WOMAN WHO SWALLOWED SOME SPOCK, <span class="tooltip power-tooltip">"Stay at home,
            Mother, take care of your flock."<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">patriarchy</span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span></span> She swalloed the Spock to go with the ring, She
         swallowed the ring to make up for the pill, She swallowed the pill to go with the
         line,
         She swallowed the line to go with the FLUFF She swallowed the FLUFF to sweeten the
         rule,
         She swallowed the rule to go with the lie, We all know why she swallowed that lie
         PERHAPS SHE'LL DIE! 
         </p>
      
      <p>
          ONE DAY THIS YOUNG WOMAN WOKE UP &amp; SHE SAID, "I've swallowed so
         much, I wish I were dead. I swallowed it all to go with the Spock, I swallowed the
         Spock
         to go with the ring, I swallowed the ring to make up for the pill, I swallowed the
         pill
         to go with the line, I swallowed the line to go with the FLUFF, I swallowed the FLUFF
         to
         sweeten the rule, I swallowed the rule to go with the lie, Why in the world did I
         swallow that lie!? PERHAPS I'LL DIE!" 
         </p>
      
      <p>
          <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip">SHE RAN TO HER SISTERS, IT WASN'T TOO LATE TO BE LIBERATED,
            REGURGITATE.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">?</span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span></span> She threw up the Spock &amp; threw up the ring, Looked like a princess, but
         felt like a thing; She threw up the pill &amp; threw up the line, "I like 'em dumb,
         baby, you suit me fine; She threw up the FLUFF and threw up the rule, "Live to serve
         others," she learned it in school; <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip">And last but not least, she threw up that lie, - We
            all know why she threw up that lie, SHE WILL NOT DIE!!<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">?</span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span><span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip"></span></span> 
         </p>
      </body>
</html>