<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../style.css"/>
      <title>The Second Sex</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <nav>
         <ul>
            <li><a href="../index.html">Main</a></li>
            <li><a href="../methodology.html">Methodology</a></li>
            <li><a href="../texts.html">Texts</a></li>
            <li><a href="../analysis.html">Analysis</a></li>
         </ul>
      </nav>
      <nav class="link-column">
         <div class="textNav">
            <ul>
               <li>
                  <a href="../wave2.html">Overview</a>
               </li>
               <li>
                  <a href="TheFeminineMystique.xhtml">The Feminine Mystique</a>
               </li>
               <li>
                  <a href="TheSecondSex.xhtml">The Second Sex</a>
               </li>
               <li>
                  <a href="AtlanticCityPageant.xhtml">Atlantic City is a Town with
                     Class</a>
               </li>
               <li>
                  <a href="WomenHating.xhtml">Women Hating</a>
               </li>
               <li>
                  <a href="ThereWasAYoungWoman.xhtml">There was a young woman who
                     swallowed a lie</a>
               </li>
               <li>
                  <a href="FuriesLesbian.xhtml">The Furies: Lesbian/Feminist Monthly</a>
               </li>
               <li>
                  <a href="TheDeathOfGod.xhtml">After The Death of God The Father</a>
               </li>
            </ul>
         </div>
      </nav>
      <div class="checkboxList">
         <h3>Power Systems</h3><label class="container">Patriarchy<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="patriarchy"/></label><label class="container">Religion<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="religion"/></label><label class="container">Class<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="class"/></label><label class="container">Race<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="race"/></label><label class="container">Political<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="political"/></label><label class="container">Social<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="social"/></label><label class="container">Matriarchy<input type="checkbox" data-category="power" data-subcategory="matriarchy"/></label><h3>Religion</h3><label class="container">Non-Western<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="non_western"/></label><label class="container">Islam<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="islam"/></label><label class="container">Protestantism<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="protestantism"/></label><label class="container">Catholicism<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="catholicism"/></label><label class="container">Judaism<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="judaism"/></label><label class="container">Indigenous<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="indigenous"/></label><label class="container">Christianity<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="christianity"/></label><label class="container">Greek Mythology<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="greekmyth"/></label><label class="container">Quaker<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="quaker"/></label><label class="container">Anglican<input type="checkbox" data-category="religion" data-subcategory="anglican"/></label><h3>Identity</h3><label class="container">Race<input type="checkbox" data-category="identity" data-subcategory="race"/></label><label class="container">Sexuality<input type="checkbox" data-category="identity" data-subcategory="sexuality"/></label><label class="container">Gender<input type="checkbox" data-category="identity" data-subcategory="gender"/></label><label class="container">Nationality<input type="checkbox" data-category="identity" data-subcategory="nationality"/></label><h3>Feminist Theory</h3><label class="container">Marxist<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="marxist"/></label><label class="container">Radfem<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="rad_fem"/></label><label class="container">Terf<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="terf"/></label><label class="container">Liberal<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="liberal"/></label><label class="container">Praxis<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="praxis"/></label><label class="container">Antifeminist<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="antifeminist"/></label><label class="container">Political Lesbian<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="political_lesbian"/></label><label class="container">Abolitionist<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="abolitionist"/></label><label class="container">Enlightenment Individualism<input type="checkbox" data-category="fem" data-subcategory="enlightenment_individualism"/></label><h3>Social Theory</h3><label class="container">Freud<input type="checkbox" data-category="social" data-subcategory="freud"/></label><label class="container">Rights of Man<input type="checkbox" data-category="social" data-subcategory="rights_of_man"/></label><label class="container">Enlightenment Individualism<input type="checkbox" data-category="social" data-subcategory="enlightenment"/></label><label class="container">Natural Rights<input type="checkbox" data-category="social" data-subcategory="natural_rights"/></label></div><script>
                    // Function to get all checked subcategories for a given category
                    function getCheckedSubcategories(category) {
                    const checkboxes = document.querySelectorAll(`input[data-category="${category}"]:checked`);
                    return Array.from(checkboxes).map(cb =&gt; cb.dataset.subcategory);
                    }
                    
                    // Function to check if any checkbox in a category is checked
                    function isCategoryActive(category) {
                    const checkboxes = document.querySelectorAll(`input[data-category="${category}"]`);
                    return Array.from(checkboxes).some(cb =&gt; cb.checked);
                    }
                    
                    // Function to update tooltip visibility
                    function updateTooltips() {
                    // Define mapping of categories to tooltip classes and their prefixes
                    const categories = {
                    'fem': { class: 'fem-tooltip', prefix: 'f_' },
                    'power': { class: 'power-tooltip', prefix: 'p_' },
                    'social': { class: 'social-tooltip', prefix: 's_' },
                    'religion': { class: 'religion-tooltip', prefix: 'r_' },
                    'identity': { class: 'identity-tooltip', prefix: '' },
                    'class': { class: 'class-tooltip', prefix: '' }
                    };
                    
                    // For each category, show/hide corresponding tooltips
                    Object.keys(categories).forEach(category =&gt; {
                    const tooltipClass = categories[category].class;
                    const prefix = categories[category].prefix;
                    const tooltips = document.querySelectorAll(`.${tooltipClass}`);
                    const checkedSubcategories = getCheckedSubcategories(category);
                    
                    tooltips.forEach(tooltip =&gt; {
                    // If no checkboxes in this category are checked, hide the tooltip
                    if (checkedSubcategories.length === 0) {
                    tooltip.classList.add('tooltip-hidden');
                    } else {
                    // Check if tooltip has any of the checked subcategories
                    const tooltipSubcategories = tooltip.dataset.subcategories 
                    ? tooltip.dataset.subcategories.split(',') 
                    : [];
                    
                    // Show tooltip if it has any of the checked subcategories
                    const hasMatch = checkedSubcategories.some(subcategory =&gt; 
                    tooltipSubcategories.includes(prefix + subcategory)
                    );
                    
                    if (hasMatch) {
                    tooltip.classList.remove('tooltip-hidden');
                    } else {
                    tooltip.classList.add('tooltip-hidden');
                    }
                    }
                    });
                    });
                    }
                    
                    // Initialize when page loads
                    document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', function() {
                    // Add event listeners to all checkboxes
                    const allCheckboxes = document.querySelectorAll('input[type="checkbox"][data-category]');
                    allCheckboxes.forEach(checkbox =&gt; {
                    checkbox.addEventListener('change', updateTooltips);
                    });
                    
                    // Hide all tooltips initially
                    updateTooltips();
                    });
                    </script><h1>The Second Sex</h1><span style="font-style: italic; text-align: center; margin: 15px 200px;">
         By Simone de Beauvoir (1949)
         </span>
      
      <p>
         <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip" data-subcategories="f_antifeminist">WOMAN? Very simple, say the fanciers of simple formulas: she is a womb, an ovary;
            she is a
            female – this word is sufficient to define her.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">bioessentialism</span></span> In the mouth of a man the epithet female has
         the sound of an insult, yet he is not ashamed of his animal nature; on the contrary,
         he is
         proud if someone says of him: ‘He is a male!’ <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip" data-subcategories="f_antifeminist">The term ‘female’ is derogatory not because it
            emphasises woman’s animality, but because it imprisons her in her sex; and if this
            sex 
            seems to man to be contemptible and inimical even in harmless dumb animals, it is
            
            evidently because of the uneasy hostility stirred up in him by woman. Nevertheless
            he 
            wishes to find in biology a justification for this sentiment.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">bioessentialism</span></span> The word female brings up in his 
         mind a saraband of imagery – a vast, round ovum engulfs and castrates the agile 
         spermatozoan; <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_matriarchy">the monstrous and swollen termite queen rules over the enslaved males;<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">natural matriarchy</span></span> the
         <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_matriarchy">female praying mantis and the spider, satiated with love, crush and devour their partners;<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">natural matriarchy</span></span> 
         the bitch in heat runs through the alleys, trailing behind her a wake of depraved
         odours; the 
         she-monkey presents posterior immodestly and then steals away with hypocritical 
         coquetry; <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_patriarchy">and the most superb wild beasts – the tigress, the lioness, the panther – bed down
            
            slavishly under the imperial embrace of the male.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">natural patriarchy</span></span> Females sluggish, eager, artful, stupid, 
         callous, lustful, ferocious, abased – man projects them all at once upon woman. And
         the 
         fact is that she is a female. But if we are willing to stop thinking in platitudes,
         two questions 
         are immediately posed: <span class="tooltip fem-tooltip" data-subcategories="f_rad_fem">what does the female denote in the animal kingdom? And what 
            particular kind of female is manifest in woman?<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">natural vs societal</span></span>
         </p>
      
      <p>
         <span class="tooltip social-tooltip" data-subcategories="s_natural_rights">Males and females are two types of individuals which are differentiated within a species
            for 
            the function of reproduction; they can be defined only correlatively. But first it
            must be noted 
            that even the division of a species into two sexes is not always clear-cut.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">natural sexes</span></span>
         </p>
      
      <p>
         In nature it is not universally manifested. To speak only of animals, it is well known
         that 
         among the microscopic one-celled forms – infusoria, amoebae, sporozoans, and the like
         – 
         multiplication is fundamentally distinct from sexuality. Each cell divides and subdivides
         by 
         itself. In many-celled animals or metazoans reproduction may take place asexually,
         either 
         by schizogenesis – that is, by fission or cutting into two or more parts which become
         new 
         individuals – or by blastogenesis – that is, by buds that separate and form new individuals.
         
         The phenomena of budding observed in the fresh-water hydra and other coelenterates,
         in 
         sponges, worms, and tunicates, are well-known examples. In cases of parthenogenesis
         the 
         egg of the virgin female develops into an embryo without fertilisation by the male,
         which thus 
         may play no role at all. In the honey-bee copulation takes place, but the eggs may
         or may not 
         be fertilised at the time of laying. The unfertilised eggs undergo development and
         produce 
         the drones (males); in the aphids males are absent during a series of generations
         in which 
         the eggs are unfertilised and produce females. Parthenogenesis has been induced artificially
         
         in the sea urchin, the starfish, the frog, and other species. Among the one-celled
         animals 
         (Protozoa), however, two cells may fuse, forming what is called a zygote; and in the
         honey-
         bee fertilisation is necessary if the eggs are to produce females. In the aphids both
         males 
         and females appear in the autumn, and the fertilised eggs then produced are adapted
         for 
         over-wintering.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         Certain biologists in the past concluded from these facts that even in species capable
         of 
         asexual propagation occasional fertilisation is necessary to renew the vigour of the
         race – to 
         accomplish ‘rejuvenation’ through the mixing of hereditary material from two individuals.
         On 
         this hypothesis sexuality might well appear to be an indispensable function in the
         most 
         complex forms of life; only the lower organisms could multiply without sexuality,
         and even 
         here vitality would after a time become exhausted. But today this hypothesis is largely
         
         abandoned; research has proved that under suitable conditions asexual multiplication
         can 
         go on indefinitely without noticeable degeneration, a fact that is especially striking
         in the 
         bacteria and Protozoa. More and more numerous and daring experiments in 
         parthenogenesis are being performed, and in many species the male appears to be 
         fundamentally unnecessary. Besides, if the value of intercellular exchange were 
         demonstrated, that value would seem to stand as a sheer, unexplained fact. Biology
         
         certainly demonstrates the existence of sexual differentiation, but from the point
         of view of 
         any end to be attained the science could not infer such differentiation from the structure
         of 
         the cell, nor from the laws of cellular multiplication, nor from any basic phenomenon.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         <span class="tooltip social-tooltip" data-subcategories="s_natural_rights">The production of two types of gametes, the sperm and the egg, does not necessarily
            imply 
            the existence of two distinct sexes; as a matter of fact, egg and sperm – two highly
            
            differentiated types of reproductive cells – may both be produced by the same individual.
            
            This occurs in normally hermaphroditic species, which are common among plants and
            are 
            also to be found among the lower animals, such as annelid worms and molluscs.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">scientific sexes</span></span> In them 
         reproduction may be accomplished through self-fertilisation or, more commonly, cross-
         fertilisation. Here again certain biologists have attempted to account for the existing
         state of 
         affairs. Some hold that the separation of the gonads (ovaries and testes) in two distinct
         
         individuals represents an evolutionary advance over hermaphroditism; others on the
         
         contrary regard the separate condition as primitive, and believe that hermaphroditism
         
         represents a degenerate state. These notions regarding the superiority of one system
         or the 
         other imply the most debatable evolutionary theorising. All that we can say for sure
         is that 
         these two modes of reproduction coexist in nature, that they both succeed in accomplishing
         
         the survival of the species concerned, and that the differentiation of the gametes,
         like that 
         of the organisms producing them, appears to be accidental. It would seem, then, that
         the 
         division of a species into male and female individuals is simply an irreducible fact
         of 
         observation.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         In most philosophies this fact has been taken for granted without pretence of explanation.
         
         <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_greekmyth">According to the Platonic myth, there were at the beginning men, women, and 
            hermaphrodites. Each individual had two faces, four arms, four legs, and two conjoined
            
            bodies. At a certain time they were split in two, and ever since each half seeks to
            rejoin its 
            corresponding half. Later the gods decreed that new human beings should be created
            
            through the coupling of dissimilar halves. But it is only love that this story is
            intended to 
            explain; division into sexes is assumed at the outset.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">Platonic myth</span></span> Nor does Aristotle explain this division, 
         for if matter and form must cooperate in all action, there is no necessity for the
         active and 
         passive principles to he separated in two different categories of individuals. <span class="tooltip religion-tooltip" data-subcategories="r_catholicism">Thus St Thomas 
            proclaims woman an ‘incidental’ being, which is a way of suggesting – from the male
            point 
            of view – the accidental or contingent nature of sexuality.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">St Thomas theory</span></span> <span class="tooltip social-tooltip" data-subcategories="s_natural_rights">Hegel, however, would have been 
            untrue to his passion for rationalism had he failed to attempt a logical explanation.
            Sexuality 
            in his view represents the medium through which the subject attains a concrete sense
            of 
            belonging to a particular kind (genre). ‘The sense of kind is produced in the subject
            as an 
            effect which offsets this disproportionate sense of his individual reality, as a desire
            to find 
            the sense of himself in another individual of his species through union with this
            other, 
            to complete himself and thus to incorporate the kind (genre) within his own nature
            and bring 
            it into existence. This is copulation’ (Philosophy of Nature, Part 3, Section 369).
            And a little 
            farther on. ‘The process consists in this, namely: that which they are in themselves,
            that is 
            to say a single kind, one and the same subjective life, they also establish it as
            such.’ And 
            Hegel states later that for the uniting process to be accomplished, there must first
            be sexual 
            differentiation. But his exposition is not convincing: one feels in it all too distinctly
            the 
            predetermination to find in every operation the three terms of the syllogism.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">sexual belonging</span></span>
         </p>
      
      <p>
         The projection or transcendence of the individual towards the species, in which both
         
         individual and species are fulfilled, could be accomplished without the intervention
         of a third 
         element in the simple relation of progenitor to offspring; that is to say, reproduction
         could be 
         asexual. Or, if there were to be two progenitors, they could be similar (as happens
         in 
         hermaphroditic species) and differentiated only as particular individuals of a single
         type. 
         Hegel’s discussion reveals a most important significance of sexuality, but his mistake
         is 
         always to argue from significance to necessity, to equate significance with necessity.
         <span class="tooltip social-tooltip" data-subcategories="s_rights_of_man">Man 
            gives significance to the sexes and their relations through sexual activity, just
            as he gives 
            sense and value to all the functions that he exercises; but sexual activity is not
            necessarily 
            implied in the nature of the human being.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">sexual significance</span></span> <span class="tooltip social-tooltip" data-subcategories="s_natural_rights">Merleau-Ponty notes in the Phénoménologie de la 
            perception that human existence requires us to revise our ideas of necessity and 
            contingence. ‘Existence,’ he says, ‘has no casual, fortuitous qualities, no content
            that does 
            not contribute to the formation of its aspect; it does not admit the notion of sheer
            fact, for it 
            is only through existence that the facts are manifested.’<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">human existence</span></span> True enough. But it is also true that 
         there are conditions without which the very fact of existence itself would seem to
         be 
         impossible. <span class="tooltip social-tooltip" data-subcategories="s_natural_rights">To be present in the world implies strictly that there exists a body which is at 
            once a material thing in the world and a point of view towards this world; but nothing
            requires 
            that this body have this or that particular structure.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">material body</span></span> <span class="tooltip social-tooltip" data-subcategories="s_rights_of_man">Sartre discusses in L’Étre et le 
            néant Heidegger’s dictum to the effect that the real nature of man is bound up with
            death 
            because of man’s finite state. He shows that an existence which is finite and yet
            unlimited in 
            time is conceivable; but none the less if death were not resident in human life, the
            relation 
            of man to the world and to himself would be profoundly disarranged – so much so that
            the 
            statement ‘Man is mortal’ would be seen to have significance quite other than that
            of a mere 
            fact of observation. Were he immortal, an existent would no longer be what we call
            a man.
            One of the essential features of his career is that the progress of his life through
            time creates 
            behind him and before him the infinite past and future, and it would seem, then, that
            the 
            perpetuation of the species is the correlative of his individual limitation.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">man as mortal</span></span> <span class="tooltip social-tooltip" data-subcategories="s_natural_rights">Thus we can regard 
            the phenomenon of reproduction as founded in the very nature of being. But we must
            stop 
            there. The perpetuation of the species does not necessitate sexual differentiation.
            True 
            enough, this differentiation is characteristic of existents to such an extent that
            it belongs in 
            any realistic definition of existence. But it nevertheless remains true that both
            a mind without 
            a body and an immortal man are strictly inconceivable, whereas we can imagine a 
            parthenogenetic or hermaphroditic society.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">nature of being</span></span>
         </p>
      
      <p>
         On the respective functions of the two sexes man has entertained a great variety of
         beliefs. 
         At first they had no scientific basis, simply reflecting social myths. <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_matriarchy">It was long thought – and 
            it still is believed in certain primitive matriarchal societies – that the father
            plays no part in 
            conception. Ancestral spirits in the form of living germs are supposed to find their
            way into 
            the maternal body.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">natural matriarchy</span></span> <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_patriarchy">With the advent patriarchal institutions, the male laid eager claim to his 
            posterity. It was still necessary to grant the mother a part in procreation, but it
            was conceded 
            only that she carried and nourished the living seed, created by the father alone.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">reproductive patriarchy</span></span> <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_patriarchy">Aristotle 
            fancied that the foetus arose from the union of sperm and menstrual blood, woman 
            furnishing only passive matter while the male principle contributed force, activity,
            
            movement, life. Hippocrates held to a similar doctrine, recognising two kinds of seed,
            the 
            weak or female and the strong or male. The theory of Aristotle survived through the
            Middle 
            Ages and into modern times.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">sexual gender roles</span></span>
         </p>
      
      <p>
         At the end of the seventeenth century Harvey killed female dogs shortly after copulation
         and 
         found in the horns of the uterus small sacs that he thought were eggs but that were
         really 
         embryos. The Danish anatomist Steno gave the name of ovaries to the female genital
         glands, 
         previously called ‘feminine testicles’, and noted on their surface the small swellings
         that von 
         Graaf in 1677 erroneously identified with the eggs and that are now called Graafian
         follicles. 
         The ovary was still regarded as homologous to the male gland. In the same year, however,
         
         the ‘spermatic animalcules’ were discovered and it was proved that they penetrated
         into the 
         uterus of the female; but it was supposed that they were simply nourished therein
         and that 
         the coming individual was preformed in them. <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_patriarchy">In 1694 a Dutchman, Hartsaker, drew a picture 
            of the ‘homunculus’ hidden in the spermatozoan, and in 1699, another scientist said
            that he 
            had seen the spermatozoan cast off a kind of moult under which appeared a little man,
            
            which he also drew. Under these imaginative hypotheses, woman was restricted to the
            
            nourishment of an active, living principle already preformed in perfection.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">women as passive</span></span> These notions 
         were not universally accepted, and they were argued into the nineteenth century. The
         use of 
         the microscope enabled von Baer in 1827 to discover the mammalian egg, contained inside
         
         the Graaflan follicle. Before long it was possible to study the cleavage of the egg
         – that is, the 
         early stage of development through cell division – and in 1835 sarcode, later called
         
         protoplasm, was discovered and the true nature of the cell began to be realised. In
         1879 the 
         penetration of the spermatozoan into the starfish egg was observed, and thereupon
         the 
         equivalence of the nuclei of the two gametes, egg and sperm, was established. The
         details 
         of their union within the fertilised egg were first worked out in 1883 by a Belgian
         zoologist, 
         van Beneden.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         Aristotle’s ideas were not wholly discredited, however. <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_patriarchy">Hegel held that the two sexes were of 
            necessity different, the one active and the other passive, and of course the female
            would be 
            the passive one. ‘Thus man, in consequence of that differentiation, is the active
            principle 
            while woman is the passive principle because she remains undeveloped in her 
            unity.’ [Hegel, Philosophy of Nature] And even after the egg had been recognised as
            an active 
            principle, men still tried to make a point of its quiescence as contrasted with the
            lively 
            movements of the sperm.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">women as passive</span></span> Today one notes an opposite tendency on the part of some 
         scientists. The discoveries made in the course of experiments on parthenogenesis have
         led 
         them to reduce the function of the sperm to that of a simple physico-chemical reagent.
         <span class="tooltip power-tooltip" data-subcategories="p_matriarchy">It 
            has been shown that in certain species the stimulus of an acid or even of a needle-prick
            is 
            enough to initiate the cleavage of the egg and the development of the embryo. On this
            basis 
            it has been boldly suggested that the male gamete (sperm) is not necessary for reproduction,
            
            that it acts at most as a ferment; further, that perhaps in time the co-operation
            of the male 
            will become unnecessary in procreation – the answer, it would seem, to many a woman’s
            
            prayer.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">reproduction without men</span></span> But there is no warrant for so bold an expectation, for nothing warrants us in 
         universalising specific life processes. The phenomena of asexual propagation and of
         
         parthenogenesis appear to be neither more nor less fundamental than those of sexual
         
         reproduction. I have said that the latter has no claim a priori to be considered basic;
         but 
         neither does any fact indicate that it is reducible to any more fundamental mechanism.
         </p>
      
      <p>
         Thus, admitting no a priori doctrine, no dubious theory, we are confronted by a fact
         for which 
         we can offer no basis in the nature of things nor any explanation through observed
         data, and 
         the significance of which we cannot comprehend a priori. <span class="tooltip identity-tooltip" data-subcategories="gender">We can hope to grasp the 
            significance of sexuality only by studying it in its concrete manifestations; and
            then perhaps 
            the meaning of the word female will stand revealed.<span class="tooltiptext" role="tooltip">sceintific definition of women</span></span>
         </p>
      
      <p>
         I do not intend to offer here a philosophy of life; and I do not care to take sides
         prematurely 
         in the dispute between the mechanistic and the purposive or teleological philosophies.
         It is 
         to be noted, however, that all physiologists and biologists use more or less finalistic
         
         language, if only because they ascribe meaning to vital phenomena. I shall adopt their
         
         terminology without taking any stand on the relation between life and consciousness,
         we 
         can assert that every biological fact implies transcendence, that every function involves
         a 
         project, something to be done. Let my words be taken to imply no more than that.
         </p>
      </body>
</html>